
















QUOTATION RESPONSE




Contract Title
Provision of a West Midlands Creative Business ‘Scale-Up’ Ready Mapping Study to Greater Birmingham and Solihull Local Enterprise Partnership (GBSLEP)
Contract Reference
n/a
Bidder Name 
BOP Consulting and Curator Technologies
Time / Date for Quotation Return
Tuesday 30th July 2019 (noon)





STAGE 1 – GENERAL INFORMATION (PASS / FAIL)

	•	Company Information

Name of Organisation 
Burns Owens Partnership Ltd
Trading Name of Applicant
BOP Consulting Ltd
Address of Registered Office
3-5 St John Street
London 

Postcode
EC1M 4AA
Company Registration No. (if applicable)
04665658
Date of Registration
13th February 2003
Certificate of Incorporation, and all certificates of change of name issues by the Company Registrar

(Or include reasons if not applicable)
 Yes

 No
Is the applicant a consortium joint venture or other arrangement? If so, please provide details of the constitution
 Yes

 No
Contact Name for enquiries about this application
Richard Naylor
Telephone Number
020 7253 2041
Fax Number
N/A
Email
richard@bop.co.uk


The Quotation Provider must inform GBSLEP if they are receiving funding to undertake similar or related activities to that defined in this procurement exercise. Please provide details with your quotation in the table below.

Funder 
N/A
Funding Activities
N/A
Date
N/A
Period of Funding 
N/A



	•	Statement of Insurance Cover 

	•	Details of existing policies which will provide insurance cover for the contract

Public Liability Insurance

(Minimum Cover: £1m for each
and every incident)
Insurer 
Allianz Insurance

Policy Number
TX13592839

Level of Indemnity
£5,000,000

Limit for Single Event
£5,000,000

Expiry Date
28th May 2020
Professional Indemnity Insurance

(Minimum Cover £500,000 for each and every incident)
Insurer 
Allianz Insurance

Policy Number
TX13592839

Level of Indemnity
£2,000,000

Limit for Single Event
£2,000,000

Expiry Date
28th May 2020
Employers’ Liability Insurance

(minimum statutory limit as laid down by legislation)
Insurer 
Allianz Insurance

Policy Number
TX13592839

Level of Indemnity
£10,000,000

Limit for Single Event
£10,000,000

Expiry Date
28 May 2020

	•	Details of any new policies or endorsements to existing policies that will be required to comply with the insurance provisions of the contract.

Type of Policy
N/A
Proposed Insurers

Details


	•	Details of Insurance Agent/Broker

Name
Champion Insurance Brokers Ltd
Address
1 Worsley Court
High Street
Worsley
Manchester 
Postcode
M28 3NJ
Contact Name
Martin Thornes
Telephone No.
03330 430 430
Fax No.
n/a
Email
info@champion-insurance.co.uk

	•	I confirm that the insurances detailed in paragraph 2.1 and 2.2 will provide all the Insurance cover required under the Contract.

	•	I agree that the details provided in the insurance statement may be checked with the Insurance Agent/Broker named in paragraph 2.3

In the event that my/our offer is under consideration I agree to arrange, with the insurers the provision of a Statement to GBSLEP: -
	
	•	that valid Insurance is held in accordance with the requirements of Conditions of Contract;
	•	that all premiums due to the Insurer have been paid including instalment payments;
	•	that the Insurer agrees to give notice forthwith to GBSLEP of withdrawal or intention to withdraw insurance cover in connection with the project.

Date
30 July 2019
Signatures of Quotation Provider/Agent

Trade of Business Name
Address

Telephone No.

Email




2.6 This document is to be signed by such persons:

i).  Where the quotation provider is an individual, by that individual;
ii). Where the quotation provider is a partnership, by one duly authorised partner;
iii). Where the quotation provider is a company by one director or by a director and the 
iv). Secretary of the Company, such persons being duly authorised for that purpose.



	•	References

Please provide two references relevant to this project that will be used to assess the experience, capability and competence of the organisation and the individual(s). GBSLEP reserves the right to verify the authenticity of the references referred to at any time during the procurement process. 

	•	Use only those references where you have the ability to disclose all the relevant information asked.  
	•	Use only those references where the contact provided is willing to discuss the contact of the information included.
	•	Prior to being awarded the contract, GBSLEP will undertake a risk assessment, which may include contacting references.


Reference 1
Organisation (Name):
Warwick District Council
Customer Contact Name 
David Guilding
Customer Telephone No:
01926 456230
Customer Email Address:
david.guilding@warwickdc.gov.uk
Date Contract Awarded:
1 May 2019
Contract Completion Date:
1 July 2019
Contract Reference and Brief Description:
Quantified economic impact of creative economy upon Warwick District, consulted creative sector (via survey and focus group), provided recommendations on growth of creative sector
Contract Value:
£19,725 plus VAT
Contract Outcomes:
Recommendations incorporated into new strategy for creative sector by Warwick District Council


Reference 2
Organisation (Name):
Coventry & Warwickshire LEP
Customer Contact Name 
Sarah Windrum
Customer Telephone No:
01926 452462
Customer Email Address:
Sarah.windrum@emeraldcomms.co.uk
Date Contract Awarded:
06 October 2016
Contract Completion Date:
22 February 2017
Contract Reference and Brief Description:
Mapping of computer games sector in the West Midlands and development of an action plan for the growth of the sector.
Contract Value:
£14,938 + VAT and expenses
Contract Outcomes:
Delivery of report and action plan

Have you had any contracts terminated for poor performance in the last three years, or any contracts where damages have been claimed by the contracting authority?
 Yes

 No

If “Yes” please give details:




	•	Health and Safety 

Please provide evidence that you have a health & safety management policy. If your organisation holds Health & Safety accreditation by SSIP (Safety Systems in Procurement Forum) assessment provider, or, UKAS accredited certification to OHSAS 18001 you should provide a copy of a valid in-date accreditation certificate as evidence.

Health and Safety Policy last reviewed 30/04/2019 attached	


	•	BIRMINGHAM LIVING WAGE

You are required to pay employees the Birmingham Living Wage in accordance with Birmingham Living Wage Policy.  The Birmingham Living Wage is not the same as the National Living Wage which is a legal requirement (see embedded attachment). The Birmingham Living Wage is the same as that set out by the Living Wage Foundation and independently determined on an annual basis by the Centre for Research in Social Policy at Loughborough University.  The current living wage rate is £9.00 per hour. 
      
       Further information on the Birmingham Living Wage can be found here:
  
       https://www.livingwage.org.uk/
		                                        
       Please confirm you will pay the Birmingham Living Wage in accordance with the Birmingham Living Wage Policy.
 Yes
 No















STAGE 2 – PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE 	(PASS / FAIL)

Questions 

1
Please provide relevant experience and quality of your delivery team showing how you can meet the requirements of the brief. (Maximum of 500 words)

Iain Bennett, Associate Director, BOP Consulting
Iain will be Project Director. He has 30 years’ experience in digital and creative industries. At BOP he is currently developing a framework for the development of Wakefield Creativity Network and is leading on a sector analysis for a 3-year evaluation of Audience of the Future, a £33m programme of investment into immersive creative content, for UKRI. Recent relevant experience includes a study of cultural and creative industries for London Borough of Havering (2019); research into barriers to investment, production and distribution in the UK’s immersive economy (Digital Catapult, 2018). Iain also managed the mapping of the creative economy of Greater Birmingham & Solihull LEP (2017/18) and was author of a ‘Blueprint for growth’ for the games sector in Leamington Spa and the West Midlands for Coventry & Warwickshire LEP and Ukie (2017).
Jonathan Todd will act as Project Advisor for this team. He joined BOP as Chief Economist, having managed the research programme of UK Music, the umbrella trade body for the commercial music industry, for four years. At BOP, Jonathan leads our work on economic impact assessment – in which he has 15 years’ experience. Jonathan led the quant analysis in the GBSLEP Creative Economy mapping project discussed above, Economic Impact research for Leeds 2023 and BOP’s impact study of the creative sector in Warwick District For BOP, he has assessed the economic impact of fashion in east London, advised the Midlands Engine on better utilising culture to achieve economic aims, and undertaken analysis to support the case for Channel 4 to relocate to the West Midlands. 
Marta Moretto, Senior Researcher 
Marta’s recent projects include project managing BOP’s impact study of the creative sector in Warwick District; economic analysis for Leeds2023, and the economic impact of culture in Cheltenham. 
Simon Sprince, Managing Director, Curator Technologies
Simon’s background is in digital media with over 20 years’ experience of content and application production. His experience of the key sub sectors of digital and creative industries led him to develop City Curator. City Curator is a tool for investors, businesses and investment agencies to understand the dynamics and relative competitiveness of different locations across Europe and North America. It draws on real time information from a range of sources (including LinkedIn, Crunchbase and DueDil) to profile the skills, talent and capacity of the creative and digital economy at a city, regional or national level. Simon has co-designed Curator’s collaborations with BOP in mapping creative and digital sectors [as described in Iain’s biog above]. 
Andy Goodwin, Senior Research Analyst, Curator Technologies
Andy will be responsible for research and analysis of key market and sector data and identification of new methods, techniques and data sources for improved analysis. Andy has expertise in collaborative research, stakeholder engagement, innovation processes and project delivery. Prior to joining Curator, he was Collaborative Research manager for Open Labs at LJM University. In this role he provided applied research on emerging technology opportunities and advised clients on business innovation and market opportunities. 

2
Provide examples of similar, relevant contracts undertaken in the past identifying the successes and lessons learnt within each study. (Maximum of 500 words)

Over the last three years BOP has developed a portfolio of innovative approaches to mapping of creative industries sectors, clusters and firms, including the use of experimental statistics:
Sector analysis for Audience of the Future
BOP and Curator are currently working together on an analysis of the immersive creative content sector as part of this £33m evaluation for UKRI. We have developed an experimental methodology that combines national statistical data from BRES with analysis of Companies House records (via DueDil), LinkedIn records (to identify the size of the UK workforce with immersive skills, including technical skills) and commercial investment and recruitment databases. Data has been recombined at various geographies to help analyse clustering and the impact of other Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund investments, notably the nine AHRC Creative Clusters.
London Borough of Havering
BOP and Curator collaborated on mapping the cultural and creative industries for Havering. An innovative methodology combined analysis of BRES with commercial data sources including DueDil and Crunchbase to help identify emerging strengths and sources of resilience in the local creative economy. Companies were mapped down to MSOA level to identify specific clusters and risks of displacement from regeneration plans for Romford town centre and the potential for Rainham to become a strategic location for creative manufacturing within the Thames Estuary Production Corridor (TEPC).
Mapping the Creative Economy of Culture Mile
BOP worked in partnership with placemaking consultancy Publica to map the creative economy of the Culture Mile within the City of London. Mapping of creative firms down to LSOA level, backed by a street-by-street analysis of the different typologies of creative business across the City, highlighted distinct clusters of creative businesses. This combined approach helped identify the supply chain and research and development relationships between them and with the larger cultural organisations, Barbican, LSO, Museum of London and Guildhall School. This highlighted a much stronger and more direct relationship between public investment in innovation in the arts and knowledge transfer through creative businesses than had previously been suspected. 
Digital Catapult
BOP and Curator jointly developed an experimental methodology to establish the population of immersive content and technology companies in the UK, identifying clusters and smart specialisms in locations across the four nations to provide the basis of an analysis of barriers to growth in access to investment, production techniques and distribution networks for the sector.
A blueprint for growth of the videogames sector in the West Midlands
BOP carried out a mapping study for Coventry & Warwickshire LEP and Ukie of the games sector in and around Leamington Spa. This combined mapping, primary research with local businesses and stakeholders and case studies of other international digital clusters. The final report highlighted the importance of smart specialisms in technology and IP development in Leamington Spa in building the strength of the West Midlands digital sector. The final action plan contained recommendations for skills and capital and cluster development for the sector.


STAGE 3 – QUALITY RESPONSE 		(70% WEIGHTING)

Applicants must respond to and provide relevant information with regard to all matters set out below.  The responses and information MUST be submitted as part of the quotation response.  Failure to provide such information may result in your submission being rejected.

Material Misrepresentation

GBSLEP shall rely on the information provided by the provider in relation to this section of the Tender Document prior to accepting the tender.  A material misrepresentation contained therein shall constitute a material breach of contract.




Questions

A
Criteria A	(25% Weighting)
A1
Demonstrate a thorough understanding of the objectives and context of the study 

Introduction
BOP Consulting and Curator Technologies are pleased to present this proposal to undertake the West Midlands Creative Industries ‘Scale-Up ready’ mapping study. West Midlands Combined Authority (WMCA) is one of three areas to have agreed a Sector Deal for Creative Industries. This includes funding for a creative business scale-up programme, to boost growth and productivity in the sector across all parts of the region.
The scale-up programme is likely to be organised in the form of a number of cohorts, each of ten to twenty businesses drawn from a similar sector or across a supply chain for creative content, services, products and experiences. In order to implement the scale-up programme, you are therefore looking for a mapping study which creates a method for identifying the appropriate population of businesses, and then also enables an assessment of this population to establish which of these businesses have scale-up potential. This is not an academic exercise, but needs to generate a full business directory, complete with contact details. This methodology should also be repeatedly and potentially transferable to different sectors and / or to different territories (for additional cost).
BOP has previously carried out a mapping of the creative economy in Greater Birmingham & Solihull, assessing the strengths and opportunities within those sectors and supply chains. This mapping exercise builds on that experience and adds a number of experimental methods that BOP and Curator have developed and used in a number of different contexts, to provide both a fine-grained understanding of ‘scale-up potential’ and contact, financial and employment details of individual creative businesses.
Meeting the challenges of the brief
There are a number of key challenges posed by the brief. 
First, at a granular level (i.e. relating to individual business records), government statistical definitions of the creative industries and related data sources do not identify all the businesses that you are potentially interested in. Specifically:
The definition of the creative industries, which is now based on an assessment of how creatively intensive the workforce is, nevertheless excludes some businesses that produce creative content. In particular, this is likely to be true of Jewellery, which is represented by only one SIC class within the DCMS Creative Industries definition, but where adjacent SIC classes in manufacture and retail may also contain relevant target businesses (given Birmingham has one of the UK’s largest and most strongly clustered jewellery sectors). It is also likely to be the case with respect to some digital activities, which in our experience include a significant minority of companies with creative outputs that are appropriately aligned with other Creative Industries firms. 
Firms ‘misregister’ themselves and /or their activities evolve over time such that their initial registration is no longer valid. In our recent work for Coventry & Warwickshire LEP, GBS LEP, Digital Catapult, UK Research and Innovation and others, we have established that a significant proportion of businesses engaged in the production of creative content, services and experiences and manufacture of creative products do not register themselves under one of the 31 DCMS Creative Industries SIC codes, either because they have selected the 'wrong' SIC code for their activity, because the main activity of the company has evolved over its lifetime or because the company's activities cover other areas (e.g. manufacturing, retail, head office of a group of companies) as well as creative industries.
The Office of National Statistics’ Business Register and Employment Survey (BRES) has a number of key weaknesses. These include the fact that BRES represents only a sample of businesses and that it takes into account only registered companies (which means that it tends to underestimate the contribution of self-employed and freelance workers who may form an important element of the talent pool and capacity for innovation in the creative industries).
Second, you have a ballpark figure for how many businesses you may in your final cohort (c.200), but without having done the empirical analysis to establish if this matches with the number of businesses with genuine scale-up potential; these two things might be in tension and not ‘match’ so easily. 
Third, the definition of what constitutes as a ‘scale up’ business is not straightforward nor agreed upon. In your brief, you make reference to the importance of objective measures of financial and business growth, such as turnover and employment increases. However (and as you also acknowledge in the brief), existing research suggests that these alone are not good enough indicators to identify scale up potential. Rather, ‘scale up’ is usually taken to mean businesses that can significantly grow revenues without a commensurate increase in marginal costs; and this in turn relates to the dominant business model of the company. In the context of the creative and digital industries, business models with scale up potential tend to be those based on IP generation and ownership. 
In light of these three challenges, we propose a method rooted in the following two key characteristics:
An approach that uses a mix of national statistics, commercial and publicly-available data source. In some senses this is experimental, but in other senses, elements of it are tried and tested as we have used similar methods before to address questions related to economic development and the creative and digital industries. It would also mean adding to our initial scan of businesses within the DCMS Creative Industries SIC codes with a limited number of SIC codes from within DCMS’s Digital Industries definition, as well as some further jewellery codes. 
A multi-criteria approach to assessing the scalability of businesses. This will allow us to better target the potential businesses in a more sophisticated way. Our scale up indicators and how they will be applied is outlined in section 1.2.3 of the Method statement. In essence, we suggest going beyond basic financial indicators by looking at investment activity (both public and private), R&D involvement and the generation of IP, marketing and social media activity, and recent recruitment activity.  
In turn, this will provide you with:
Greater confidence and flexibility in determining the most appropriate number of businesses to go through the scale-up programme. As the process we suggest is a multi-criteria one, it can be applied more flexibly than a single ‘Yes/No’ gate. That is, different ‘cut off’ points can be set within the multi-criteria Ranking process (Phase 3 outlined below). This would enable you to understand what the difference is likely to be in the scale up potential of a cohort of the top 200 businesses, as compared to what it might look like if that cohort were 50, 75, 100, 150, and so on. 

B
Criteria B	(50% Weighting)
B1
Demonstrate an effective and innovative approach to the collection, analysis and refinement of data to achieve the study’s objectives 

Response
1. Schedule of work
The work will be divided into three phases, each sub-divided into work packages. Individual work packages are described in more detail below. Here, we describe the sequence and logic chain for our proposed activities.
Phase One - Identification
Using a mix of public, commercial, online and private sources to identify the total pool of creative businesses within the WMCA geography:
WP1: Identify all creative businesses (defined by DCMS Creative Industries definitions and including some Digital SIC codes, as outlined at 2.2, above) in WMCA constituent and non-constituent member and partner areas
WP2: Identify creative businesses within UK Creative Industry and sector networks and WMCA hubs (including Meetups)
WP3: Identify creative businesses who have received or are looking for private finance
WP4: Identify creative businesses who have received or are looking for public finance, including funding for R&D
Phase Two – Analysis and assurance 
Using a mix of commercial and free data sources in an experimental methodology to (a) assure that the companies identified in Phase One are active creative businesses and (b) find additional evidence to define their scale-up potential and (c) identify contact details:
WP5: Scrape of all websites of companies within the list
WP6: LinkedIn analysis – including keyword search
WP7: Social media analysis 
WP8: Recruitment analysis 
 Phase Three – Ranking  
This process will result in a list of creative businesses ‘RAG rated’ (Red, Amber, Green) against ‘scale-up’ common application gateway criteria and confidence factors. (see Figure 3, below for examples):
WP9: Scale-up score
Optional survey
We have considered the potential to design and implement an online business survey as a further refinement of the validation and ranking process of eligible businesses that meet the common application gateway criteria. However, we have not included it in our main proposal as it may not need to be deployed unless there are insufficient businesses that pass the common application gateway criteria and/or have a high or very high scale-up score identified by the initial three phases of work.
2.1 Methodology
2.1.1 Use of innovative data sources
We describe this as an ‘experimental’ methodology – in that it uses a mix of national statistics, commercial and publicly-available data source. But in fact, we have refined this approach over the course of the last two years across several projects, at local authority, regional and national level, as described at Section 5, below.
Our approach moves away from dependency on a single set of sample-based national statistics (as enshrined in the methodology for DCMS sector estimates) to use commercially available data that are collected on an individual company and job basis and updated in real time. Examples are shown in Figure 1, below; and a table showing how LinkedIn occupational codes relate to DCMS Creative Industries sector groupings is appended to this document.

2.1.2 Keyword search
Use of sector definitions is augmented by keywords that interrogate in more detail the sub-sector, market vertical, product, services and roles within the creative industries. The exact structure of primary and secondary keywords is determined by the specification and outputs in the ITQ, but in this case they may include:
Industry sector (which can be correlated against Companies House records of SIC codes and LinkedIn industry codes)
Skills (which can be correlated against SOC codes)
Themes
Technologies (e.g. Augmented or Virtual Reality)
Markets
KPIs of the ‘scale-up’ programme
2.1.3 Development and refinement of data
We have already tested the approach proposed here by means of an initial high level scan of the proposed sources. 
2.1.4 Agile project management
The project will be managed using ‘agile’ techniques, defined by a number of sprints, some of which will overlap (as they will be carried out by different teams.) This will allow us to continuously improve our method and improve the accuracy of our results by iterative refinement of the findings through combining and comparing the different data sources.
 1.2 Work packages
1.2.1 Phase One: Identify a list of creative businesses in West Midlands Combined Authority area
WP 1: Identify all creative businesses in WMCA 
Inputs
Analysis of Companies House data via DueDil, searching for companies based upon keywords as well as SIC codes. 
DueDil also used to interrogate company finances (only available for financial reporting companies), directors and company relationships, serial entrepreneurs and company sizes.
Outputs
This process will enable us to create a directory of creative businesses within WMCA registered to relevant SIC codes. 
Companies with DCMS CI SIC codes
DCI companies mapped to identify clusters/hubs
Identification of high growth financial reporting companies (initial results show 50-100)
Identification of companies by age 
Identification of potential serial entrepreneurs
Risks 
Companies have not categorised themselves into correct SIC codes
Mitigation
Include categories adjacent to DCMS Creative Industries definitions where companies may sit, from our experience we have identified these (see note on sector definition, above)

Start date: 19 August 2019

WP2: Identify creative businesses within national and regional bodies
Create a members list pool from membership directories and information about funding awards held by UK Creative and Digital industry bodies, and (keyword-based) web search of Meetups for the West Midlands



Output 
List of member companies associated to each body to, (a) cross check against DueDil and (b) start the process of identifying sector-specific cohorts
Risks
There is no way of identifying if companies are active, dormant or dissolved
There is no accurate way of identifying companies as DCMS 
Mitigation
De-dupe list against Companies House data (from DueDil)

Start date: 19 August 2019

Milestone:  Initial list of creative businesses (without contact details), combining outputs of WP1 and WP2, shared with the client by 02 September 2019
WP 3: Identify companies that have received or are looking for private finance
Crunchbase’s platform identifies companies that have received investment. Keyword search of Crunchbase for creative products and services will enable us to create a wider list of West Midlands creative businesses, i.e. including those outside DCMS CI sector groupings, which have received finance, as well as the level of finance they have received and the number of funding rounds. 
We will also be able to create a list of creative businesses who are yet to receive finance but have created profiles on Crunchbase in order to attract investors.

Output 
List of companies who have received finance (initial searches indicate that this is 100-150 companies in WMCA area)
List of companies who have a profile on Crunchbase (initial searches show 300-350)
Risks 
There is no way of identifying if companies are active, dormant or dissolved
Crunchbase does not allow us to identify companies within DCMS CI SIC codes
Mitigation
Consolidate list against Companies House data from DueDil

Start date:  19 August 2019	

WP 4 – Identify creative businesses that have received or are looking for public finance (including R&D funding)
Grants and Research database holds a list of all organisations and companies who have received grants from InnovateUK (UK’s main R&D grant body) and funding for PHD’s or post doctorates through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
Output 
Identification of R&D grant projects within WMCA within the last three years, active and competed. (initial results show 250-300)
Filtering of projects to identify companies
Risks 
Grants and Research database does not identify whether companies are active, dormant or dissolved
Grants and Research database does not include SIC codes
Mitigation
Parse list against Companies House data from DueDil

Start date: 4 September 2019

Milestone:   List of creative businesses (without contact details), combining outputs of WP1 to WP4, shared with the client for review and comment by 16 September 2019
1.2.2 Phase Two:  Analysis and assurance of list of creative businesses to identify high growth companies
This process is made up of four steps that will enable us to analyse the companies gathered in Phase One and create a detailed list of high growth creative scale-up candidate companies within the WMCA area. 
WP 5: Scrape websites of all companies within the list
Scraping all company websites will help us to further define their creative activity based upon keywords: e.g., games, immersive, advertising etc. 
Where companies have team or staff pages on their website, we will be able to estimate staff numbers to determine their eligibility in terms of the common application gateway criteria.
Output 
This process will also enable us to parse all companies, filtering out non-creative businesses and categorising those who fit DCMS categories 
Assuring that at least one of the company’s main products or services is within one of four creative supply chains (content, services, experiences, physical products) helps establish the eligibility of companies registered at Companies House under an SIC code outside the DCMS Creative Industries definition
Workforce list for companies with team or staff pages will be used to prepare an estimate of employment levels
Risks 
Companies have not categorised themselves into correct DCMS codes
Mitigation
Include additional companies whose website gives strong evidence of creative business activity, even if their non DCMS broad categories where companies may sit, from our experience we have identified these (see ‘Addressing gapes in the definition,’ above)
Start date  30 September 2019	

WP6: LinkedIn
Through investigation on LinkedIn we can estimate the total number of employees and their roles within each company.  
Output 
Workforce list for companies
Risks 
Not everyone is on LinkedIn 
Many people do not update their profiles. 
Mitigation
Curator has been using Linkedin for sector and workforce mapping for over four years and has created a series of models for uplifting workforce numbers based upon their sector’s usage of linked and company size; including comparisons with national estimates of total numbers of workers in a sector. We will give the client both raw and uplifted numbers. 
Start date: 30 September 2019

WP 7 – Social analysis   
Scraping all company social media profiles will help us to define their activity, reach i.e. number of followers etc, volume (level of activity) and engagement (social discussion etc)

Output 
Score for companies’ social presence based upon reach, volume and engagement
Start date:   14 October 2019

WP8: Recruitment analysis   
Analysis of each company’s recruitment over the last 12 months through interrogation of commercial recruitment sites including Glassdoor, Adzuna, Indeed, and others.
Output 
Number of vacant posts advertised 
Level of seniority of roles advertised

Start date: 21 October 2019

Milestone:  long list of potential companies assembled for final analysis and application of scale up score by 8 November 2019

1.2.3 Phase Three: Scale-up scoring
We will collate the outputs of Phase Two in a table which will give a ‘red, amber, green’ score for each of the common application gateway criteria and a high growth indicator: 
Common application gateway
	•	Creative Industries Sector – company’s main activity is registered at Companies House under one of the SIC codes identified within DCMS Creative Industries sector
	•	Financial growth – actual figures, based upon accounts from previous 3 years, to identify growth of at least 10% 
	•	Employees – estimate of number of employees and contractors to assure that the company meets the gateway criterion of 8 employees 
Scale-up indicators
	•	Private sector investment – volume of investment and potential IP registered on commercial investment websites; seeking investment from professional and ‘angel’ investors is a strong indicator of ambition to grow the business, irrespective of amount
	•	Public investment –receipt of public funding for product development or collaborative R&D is an indicator that the company is looking to invest in development of IP 
	•	Social media index – indicator of businesses with marketing budget and collateral i.e. client testimonials and case studies 
	•	Recruitment index – to identify which companies have used online recruitment sites in the last six months, the number of posts and level of seniority of the role(s) advertised
Scale-up score
	•	Eligibility – if the company meets all three common application gateway criteria, it is scored ‘green’ and is automatically eligible for the scale-up programme. However, we are aware that WMCA is concerned that there may not be enough companies in the region that meet all three criteria, so we will also give an ‘amber’ rating to companies that meet one or two criteria.
	•	Confidence – is the combined score of scale-up indicators:
	•	Very high- company meets all four indicators
	•	High – company meets three indicators
	•	Medium – company meets two indicators
	•	Low- company meets one indicator
	•	Very low – company does not demonstrate that it meets any of the indicators
Milestone: final database of scale-up companies, broken down by DCMS Creative Industries sub-sector, with scale-up scores and contact details, delivered by 22 November 2019
The eligibility and confidence scores can be used together to determine whether companies who do not meet the common application criteria should be considered for entry to the programme. 
An example of how this may appear in the final list of scale up companies is shown at Figure 2, below.





C
Criteria C	(25% Weighting)
C1
Demonstrate an ability to re-run the data analysis to uncover new information and a flexibility to apply the chosen methodology to other regions and sector cohorts 

Repeatability of the methodology
The method proposed is based upon work previously carried out by BOP Consulting and Curator Technologies working together to address problems of identifying populations and clustering of creative businesses, including nascent sectors such as immersive creative content developers.
Whilst we describe it as an ‘experimental’ methodology, in that it moves away from reliance on national statistics to incorporate more up-to-the-minute commercial evidence of company performance and real time social media and recruitment information contributed by employers and employees working within the sector, it has been proven to be robust both in its application to studies of creative industries within the UK and in its use within City Curator, a commercial product that uses the same sources as the basis of investment benchmarking of 27 cities across UK, Europe and North America.
The method combines use of national statistics, Companies House data (parsed via DueDil), LinkedIn and commercial databases of investment (eg, Crunchbase) and recruitment (eg, Glassdoor, Adzuna, Indeed.)  LinkedIn is a global product, owned by Microsoft, with 26 million UK members. The commercial platforms used are stable businesses; but if one or more of them were to fail, the same data would be available through other sources. 
Extension to other geographies
Elements of the methodology have previously been used at different levels of geography, from local authority (London Borough of Havering) to national studies (sector analysis for evaluation of Audience of the Future, Digital Catapult study of barriers to growth of UK immersive content producers). 
Both public and commercial datasets are available that cover the whole of the UK, and the study can be repeated at any level of geography, including bespoke geographies – for Audience of the Future, we came up with a listing of the top 20 UK cities, which involved determining functional economic geographies around core and key cities in all four nations, and compared these with results at NUTS1 level to understand where clustering of immersive creative content producers was happening.
Transferability into other sectors
The methodology is informed by the development of a commercial product, City Curator, which uses a similar set of data sources to provide international benchmarking of 27 UK, European and North American cities for companies looking to invest or relocate. City Curator already includes a wider definition of the digital sector amongst the options for comparison, including emerging sectors such as fintech and edtech. A new commercial application is in development that will see its coverage extend to advanced manufacturing and other business and professional service sectors.
In its international application, City Curator also ranks university and private sector R&D and innovation centres, which is of direct relevance both to other sectors and to the ‘grand challenges’ within UK Industrial Strategy.
Report of methodology
BOP Consulting and Curator Technology will prepare a report of the methodology to be shared within the client organisation and with the Creative Sector ‘scale-up’ programme sponsors at DCMS, subject to an agreement that reflects commercial confidentiality and prior intellectual property rights.




STAGE 4 – PRICE	(30% WEIGHTING)

3.1	Please complete the pricing schedule as detailed below  





3.2	All prices shall be in all cases exclusive of Value Added Tax, which will be applied in accordance with legislation.

	•	The price(s) are deemed to be inclusive of all costs and expenses incurred in providing the product or service. No costs, other than those detailed will be allowed.




FURTHER INFORMATION

Payment by BACS

GBSLEP is implementing payments electronically by BACS and should your Quotation be accepted, you will be paid by BACS. Therefore, please provide the following information:

Name of Bank/Building Society
HSBC Bank Plc
Sort Code
40-31-17
Account Number
21361171
	


Confirmation Certificate

	•	[Name of Organisation] confirm that we understand and accept that GBSLEP has in its Invitation to Quote stated that the terms and conditions of this ITQ are in accordance to those set out in the Standard terms and conditions. 

	•	[Name of Organisation] confirm that the quotation submitted is on the basis as set out in the document and that a relevant consideration for GBSLEP determining to proceed with the evaluation of our quotation is that we do not seek to negotiate on the Specification, or the standard terms and conditions.

	•	 If for any reason following the submission of our Quotation we seek to propose any changes to the Specification, Terms and Conditions or to put forward any proposal which conflicts, and we do not withdraw that change following a written request to do so by GBSLEP then we agree GBSLEP may determine not to evaluate our tender submission any further.

Date
30/07/19
Quotation Provider’s Signature
(by a director)


Name of director in block capitals
Richard Naylor
Quotation Provider’s name
BOP Consulting
Quotation Provider’s address
3-5 St John Street
London EC1M 4AA
Quotation Provider’s telephone number
+44 207 253 2041
Quotation Provider’s facsimile
transmission number
N/A
Quotation Provider’s e-mail address
tenders@bop.co.uk


                Thank you for taking the time to respond to this Quotation


APPENDIX 1

GREATER BIRMINGAM & SOLIHULL LOCAL ENTERPRISE PARTNERSHIP TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	•	THE CONTRACT BETWEEN US

	•	This contract is made between you (the “Provider”) and the Greater Birmingham & Solihull Local Enterprise Partnership (”GBSLEP”) and is described in the purchase order, goods and/or the supply of services (“the Order”), and these Terms and Conditions, (together the “Contract”).  Nothing discussed prior to the Provider’s signature of the Order forms part of the Contract unless it is specifically set out in this Contract.  No variations to the Order or these Terms and Conditions shall be permitted or authorised unless the variations are documented and agreed in writing between us (“the Parties”) or individually (“the Party”).

	•	If the Provider has already started work, (e.g. supplied goods or are providing the services) then the Provider agrees that this Contract applies retrospectively from the start of the Provider’s work.

	•	The definitions set out in these Terms and Conditions, and in the Order (including in any appendices or enclosures) shall have the same meaning throughout this Contract. If there is a conflict between these Terms and Conditions and the Order, these Terms and Conditions shall prevail.

Commencement, expiry and duration
	•	The Contract shall begin from the date specified in the Order (“the Commencement Date”) and expire on the date specified in the Order (“the Expiry Date”). Unless the Contract is terminated earlier, the Contract shall be in force from the Commencement Date to the Expiry Date (“the Term”)

	•	GBSLEP shall nominate a contract manager to act on its behalf (“the GBSLEP’s Representative”) for the purposes of managing this Contract.

	•	The Provider shall identify to GBSLEP a competent contract manager (“Providers Representative”), with full authority to act and deliver on all matters arising under this Contract on behalf of the Provider.

Contracting parties, assignment, publicity and conflict
	•	This Contract is between GBSLEP and the Provider. The Provider agrees that the Provider’s relationship is solely with GBSLEP as the entity contracting with the Provider to receive the goods and/or services in accordance with the Order. 

	•	In entering into this Contract nothing shall be construed as creating a partnership, a contract of employment or a relationship of principal and agent between GBSLEP and the Provider. 

	•	The Order is personal to the Provider and the Provider shall not assign or transfer or purport to assign or transfer to any other person any of its rights or sub-contract any of its obligations under the Contract without first obtaining the written consent of the GBSLEP.

	•	The Provider agrees that the Provider shall not advertise or communicate to third parties that the Provider is providing goods or services to the GBSLEP, unless the Provider has obtained the GBSLEP’s prior written consent.

	•	In entering into this Contract the Provider confirms that:
	•	it is not aware of any conflict of interest which may affect the performance of this Contract;
	•	GBSLEP reserves the right to terminate this Contract immediately by giving notice in writing to the Provider and/or to take such other steps it deems necessary where, in the reasonable opinion of the GBSLEP, there is or may be an actual conflict, or a potential conflict, between the Provider’s pecuniary or personal interests and the duties owed to GBSLEP under the provisions of this Contract. The action of GBSLEP pursuant to this Condition shall not prejudice or affect any right of action or remedy which shall have accrued or shall thereafter accrue to the GBSLEP;
	•	it is not party to any existing or previous arrangement or arrangements which prevent the Provider from entering into this Contract;
	•	it shall not perform Services or supply Goods similar to, or in the nature of those to be provided under this Contract for any person or body if such performance could in the reasonable opinion of GBSLEP lead to a conflict with the Provider’s obligations under this Contract;
	•	it shall safeguard GBSLEP against fraud generally and, in particular, fraud on the Provider’s part or the Provider’s staff. The Provider shall notify GBSLEP immediately if the Provider has reason to suspect that any fraud has occurred or is occurring or is likely to occur. GBSLEP reserves the right to terminate this Contract where fraud has occurred, or in the reasonable opinion of the GBSLEP, is likely to occur. The action of GBSLEP pursuant to this Condition shall not prejudice or affect any right of action or remedy which shall have accrued or shall thereafter accrue to the GBSLEP.

	•	SPECIFICATION

The scope and or description of the goods and/or services to be supplied to GBSLEP under this Contract (together the “Goods” and/or “Services”) are as described in the Order. The Provider shall use all reasonable efforts to supply the Goods and/or Services in accordance with the GBSLEP’s requirements specified and any timetable referred to in the Order or otherwise specified by GBSLEP in writing.  

Data Protection, Confidentiality and Information
	•	Where in the performance of the Goods or Services the Provider is required to process personal data, the Provider shall comply fully with the Data Protection Act 2018 (“the Act”), and (for so long as and to the extent that the law of the European Union has legal effect in the UK) the General Data Protection Regulation ((EU) 2016/679) and any other directly applicable European Union regulation relating to privacy. Where necessary GBSLEP may require the Provider to enter into a separate data processing agreement, in the form as may be supplied by the GBSLEP.

	•	Where the Provider is in possession of information about GBSLEP that is by its nature confidential, or is designated as such by the other (whether in writing or orally), including this Contract (“Confidential Information”), the Provider undertakes to: -
                        Keep it confidential; 
	•	use it only in connection with providing the Goods or Services; and 
	•	not to disclose it to any other person without the GBSLEP’s prior written consent. 

	•	The Provider will be entitled to disclose Confidential Information: -
	•	 that is reasonably required by persons engaged in the performance of its obligations under the Contract.
	•	any Confidential Information which a Party can demonstrate is already generally available and in the public domain otherwise than as a result of a breach of Condition 2.2.
	•	any disclosure to enable a determination to be made under the Condition 9 (Dispute Resolution);
	•	any disclosure which is required by any Legislation (including any order of a court of competent jurisdiction), and Parliamentary obligation or the rules of any stock exchange or governmental or regulatory authority having the force of law;
	•	any disclosure of Confidential Information which is already lawfully in the possession of the receiving Party, prior to its disclosure by the disclosing Party;
	•	any disclosure by GBSLEP of Confidential Information relating to the provision of Goods or Services and such other information as may be reasonably required for the purpose of conducting a due diligence exercise for any proposed successor provider should GBSLEP decide to re-tender the Contract;
	•	any examination pursuant to the Audit Commission Act 1998 of the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which GBSLEP has used its resources;
	•	disclosure to a Party’s professional advisers; or
	•	any disclosure by GBSLEP under the Freedom of Information Act 2000.

	•	The Provider shall return to GBSLEP any data and Confidential Information belonging to GBSLEP in the Provider’s possession, power or control, either in its then current format or in a format nominated by GBSLEP (in which event GBSLEP will reimburse the Provider's reasonable data conversion expenses), together with all training manuals and other related documentation, and any other information and all copies thereof owned by the GBSLEP.

	•	Access to Information Legislation

	•	The Parties recognise and accept that GBSLEP is a Public Authority for the purposes of Access to Information Legislation, including the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 and Environmental Information Regulations 1998, and is obliged to disclose information held by itself, or on its behalf, unless the information falls under one or more exemptions, and that GBSLEP may be required to disclose the information where the public interest test lies in disclosure.

	•	 In the event that the Provider receives either: -
(i)a request under the Access to Information Legislation; or
(ii) request for an internal review in respect of a decision not to disclose information requested under the Access to Information Legislation, where the information requested is deemed to be exempt from disclosure,
2.5.10 The Provider acknowledges that any lists or schedules provided by it outlining Confidential Information are of indicative value only and that GBSLEP may nevertheless be obliged to disclose the Confidential Information.

2.6 Transparency

2.6.1 The Parties acknowledge that, except for any information which is exempt from disclosure in accordance with the provisions of the FOIA, the text of this Contract, and any Schedules to this Contract, are not confidential information.  GBSLEP shall be responsible for determining in its absolute discretion whether any part of the Contract or its Schedules is exempt from disclosure in accordance with the provisions of the FOIA.


 2.6.2 Notwithstanding any other term of this Contract, the Provider hereby gives its consent for GBSLEP to publish this Contract and its Schedules in their entirety including from time to time agreed changes to the Contract, to the general public in whatever form GBSLEP decides.

 Marking of Tender Documents

2.7   If the Provider considers that any other part of its tender (other than price) apart from Parts entitled "Payment by BACS", "Financial References Authority", "Statement of Insurance Cover", "Tenderer's Proposals/Method Statement" and "Tender Pricing Summary" is confidential it should appropriately mark that part of its document and explain the justification for so doing. It would in all circumstances be inappropriate merely to mark all parts of a tender as confidential. In law confidentiality will not arise by simply marking a document confidential.


	•	GBSLEP’S RESPONSIBILITIES

	•	GBSLEP shall issue an Order containing the instructions, specification and/or scope of the Goods or Services to be provided. 

	•	GBSLEP may specify the requirements as to performance of the Goods or Services, the timetable, the level of Charges or fees to be paid, in the Order or separately in writing following the Provider’s acceptance of the Order in accordance with Condition 4.2.

	•	GBSLEP shall be entitled to, but not required to, order the provision of Goods or Services at any time during the Contract Term.

	•	GBSLEP shall make payment for Goods delivered or Services rendered in accordance with Condition 7. 

	•	GBSLEP shall make known to the Provider all requirements concerning the conduct of the Provider at the GBSLEP’s premises and the Provider shall ensure compliance with all such requirements and shall otherwise act at all times in a lawful and proper manner.

where the requests relate to information of Personal Data proposed in the course of carrying out its obligations under this Contract, the Provider shall within 2 working days of the receipt of either request for either the information or a request for an internal review against a decision to withhold information requested under the Access to Information Legislation, notify GBSLEP with details of the request. 

2.5.3 In the event that GBSLEP receives either:-
	•	a request under the Access to Information Legislation; or
	•	a request for an internal review in respect of a decision not to disclose information requested under the Access to Information Legislation, where the information requested is deemed to be exempt from disclosure,
where the requests relate to information of Personal Data processed in the course of carrying out its obligations under this Contract, GBSLEP shall within 2 working days of the receipt of either request for either the information or a request for an internal review against a decision to withhold information requested under the Access to Information Legislation, notify the Provider with details of the request.

2.5.4 The Provider shall provide GBSLEP with a copy of all information in its possession or power in the form that GBSLEP requires within 5 Working Days (or such other period as GBSLEP may specify) of GBSLEPrequesting that information from the Provider.

2.5.5 Following GBSLEP notifying the Provider of the request or asking the Provider to provide comments, the Provider shall provide any such comments, with detailed reasoning, within 5 working days (or other such period as GBSLEP may specify), as to what Confidential Information, if any, should be withheld and the reasons why, to allow GBSLEP to consider the public interest considerations applicable under the relevant Access to Information Legislation.

2.5.6 In the event that such comments, with detailed reasoning are not received within the 5 working days, GBSLEP shall be entitled to consider the applicability of an exemption without further reference to the Provider, save for the provisions of Condition 2.5.7.

2.5.7 GBSLEP shall provide to the Provider, no less than 3 working days prior to the release of any information requested, a copy of the response to the request.

2.5.8 GBSLEP shall be responsible for determining at its absolute discretion whether any information:
(i)  Is exempt from disclosure in accordance with the provisions of the Access to Information Legislation;
(ii) Is to be disclosed in response to a request and in no event shall the Provider respond directly to a request unless expressly authorised to do so by the GBSLEP.

2.5.9 The Provider shall ensure that all information produced in the course of this Contract or relating to the Contract is retained for disclosure and shall permit GBSLEP to inspect such records as requested from time to time.


	•	If required, GBSLEP may assist the Provider in performing the Goods or Services by:
(i) taking decisions and obtaining management approvals promptly; and
(ii) give the Provider full and prompt access to the GBSLEP’s personnel and premises, together with all necessary administrative support; 
(iii) obtain any approvals, licences and security clearances promptly (including any relating to third parties, and any subcontractors); and
(iv) keep the Provider promptly informed of any proposals or developments affecting the provision of Goods or the Services to be provided under this Contract.

	•	GBSLEP shall monitor the performance of the Contract throughout the Term and may specify the frequency of meetings, submission of performance reports, records and any other relevant information required to effectively monitor the Provider’s performance, either in the Order or separately, in writing following acceptance of the Order.

	•	PROVIDERS RESPONSIBILITIES

	•	The Provider shall provide the provision of Goods or Services with all due care, skill and ability and use best endeavours to promote the interests of the GBSLEP. 

	•	The Order will lapse unless unconditionally accepted by the Provider in writing within seven days of its date.

	•	Where GBSLEP does not or cannot specify the method of working, the Provider shall endeavour to determine the best method and shall endeavour to provide the provision of Goods or Services in the most effective way 

	•	The Provider shall comply with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations, and all Legislation relating to health and safety in the performance of this Contract.

Equality Act 2010 and Equality Policy

	•	The Provider shall adopt a policy to comply with all statutory obligations under the Equality Act 2010 and with all regulations and Codes of Practice, made under the Equality Act 2010.


 




Goods
	•	The Provider shall in the provision of Goods:
	•	supply to GBSLEP the quantities of Goods stated in the Order or as may be specified elsewhere in writing;
	•	exercise all the skill, care and diligence in the discharge of the supply of the Goods to be expected of an appropriately qualified competent supplier experienced in carrying out the supply of the relevant nature, size, scope and complexity as described in the Order;
	•	ensure that the Goods delivered maintain the standards set out in the Order;
	•	deliver the Goods to the premises identified on the Order.
	•	 execute all Orders with reasonable dispatch, or by the time specified (if time is specified) in the Order.
	•	Provide all necessary labour, materials and equipment required for the offloading and placing in position of any Goods.
	•	shall supply a delivery note, quoting the Order number with all Goods supplied.
	•	The Goods shall be transported and off loaded at the sole risk of the Provider.
	•	The Goods shall be at the Providers risk until delivery in accordance with the Order.
	•	Title in the Goods shall pass to GBSLEP on delivery of the Goods in accordance with Condition 4.8.9 above

	•	GBSLEP shall at all times have full power to inspect the Goods at all stages of the manufacture and shall be at liberty at all such times to reject any Goods which do not comply with this Contract. If GBSLEP fails to reject Goods, this shall not constitute an acceptance or prejudice the GBSLEP's right to reject Goods after delivery.

	•	In the event that the Provider fails to deliver the Goods at the agreed time or fail to perform an obligation under this Contract GBSLEP may recover from the Provider for late performance or non-performance liquidated damages, and not by way of penalty, a sum equivalent to the additional cost incurred by GBSLEP as a direct result of such late performance, provided that the sum so recoverable shall be directly attributable to that part of this Contract that is the subject of the late or non-performance.

	•	GBSLEP may cancel any specific Orders issued against this Contract if delivery of any Goods has not been made within the time prescribed under this Contract.

	•	In the event GBSLEP elects to cancel an Order or any part of it GBSLEP shall not be liable to the Provider for such cancellation.

	•	Goods supplied in accordance with this Contract must comply at the time of their supply with:

	•	the express terms of this Contract;
	•	any applicable implied conditions, warranties and terms contained in the Sale of Goods Act 1979 and the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 and any related statutes and any re-enactments or modifications;
	•	all applicable European Union Directives relevant and applicable to the Goods and to the extent that they are applicable all Goods supplied must be endorsed as being fully compliant with such standards by the application of the CE mark in a position on the Goods which shall meet the requirements of the applicable European Union Directive;
	•	any specification of the British Standards Institute (or equivalent) which is relevant to the Goods at the time of supply.

Services
	•	In the provision of Services, the Provider confirms that: -
4.14.1 it is a Provider having the service expertise specified in the Order and the Provider agrees to perform the Services in accordance with the instructions of GBSLEP and to comply with Terms and Conditions of this Contract;
4.14.2 it shall exercise all the skill, care and diligence in the discharge of the Services to be expected of an appropriately qualified competent Provider experienced in carrying out Services of the relevant nature, size, scope and complexity as described in the Order;
4.14.3 shall comply promptly with all reasonable instructions given to the Provider by GBSLEP on any matter connected with the Services;
4.14.4 Service deliverables (including all records, reports, documents, papers, drawings, designs, transparencies, photos, graphics, logos, typographical arrangements, software programmes, inventions, ideas, discoveries, developments, improvements or innovations and all materials in whatever form, including but not limited to hard copy and electronic form), (“the Deliverables”) prepared by the Provider in connection with the provision of the Goods or Services shall be supplied in a timely manner or in accordance with the time specified in the Order (if so specified). 
4.14.5 GBSLEP shall use Deliverables for the purpose stated in the Order and shall reasonably seek the express consent of the Provider where it seeks to use it for any other purpose.

Staff

	•	The Provider shall engage appropriately qualified, experienced and competent staff in the delivery of the Goods and/or performance of the Services. GBSLEP may at any time require the replacement of any personnel where his or her performance or conduct is or has been unsatisfactory.  The Provider shall remove and replace promptly the person specified.

	•	The Provider shall give to the GBSLEP, if so requested, full particulars of all persons who are or may be at any time engaged in the performance of this Contract.



	•	The Provider shall be entirely responsible for the employment and conditions of service of the staff engaged for the purpose of this Contract.

	•	When instructed by GBSLEP The Provider shall ensure: -

(a)	that when, subject to Data Protection Legislation, all individuals involved in the provision of the Goods or Services, are subject to a valid [enhanced] disclosure check undertaken through the Disclosure and Barring Service established under the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012, including a check against the adults’ barred and the children’s barred list, as appropriate; and

(b)	that the level and validity of checks is monitored for each individual.


	•	NOTICE

	•	Any notice given under this Contract shall be in writing and signed by or on behalf of the Party giving it and shall be served by delivering it personally or sending it by pre-paid recorded delivery or registered post to the relevant Party at the address identified by the respective Parties or by sending it by fax to the fax number notified by the relevant Party. 

	•	Any such notice shall be deemed to have been received: -
(a)	if delivered personally, at the time of delivery;
(b)	in the case of pre-paid recorded delivery or registered post, [48] hours from the date of posting, or 
(c)	in the case of fax, at the time of transmission]
(d)	[in the case of electronic mail, [at the time of transmission

	•	In providing such service it shall be sufficient to prove that the envelope containing such notice was addressed to the address of the relevant Party and delivered either to that address or into the custody of the postal authorities as a pre-paid recorded delivery or registered post (or that the notice was transmitted by fax to the fax number of the relevant Party).

	•	Either Party may change its address for service by serving a notice in accordance with this Condition.

	•	For the purposes of Condition 5.1 the address of the Parties shall be that contained in the Order.

Ownership and intellectual property

	•	The copyright and all other intellectual property and proprietary rights whatsoever (“Intellectual Property Rights”) in any document, material, idea, data or other information (including systems and methodologies, reports, preparatory works, drafts, working papers, correspondence and advice, patents, trademarks, designs, design rights, copyright, inventions, trade secrets, know-how and confidential information)) developed by the  Provider in connection with the performance of the provision of Goods or Services shall vest in GBSLEP upon the date of such production or provision.  Where such IPR rights cannot be transferred, the Provider shall ensure that GBSLEP has a royalty free licence to permit it to utilise such information. The Provider shall do all things reasonably necessary at the GBSLEP’s request to perfect such vesting, both during and after the expiry of this Contract.

	•	Condition 5.6 shall not apply to intellectual property rights not created by the Provider at the request of GBSLEP or specifically for the purpose of performing the provision of Goods or Services and shall not, subject to Conditions 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.6 operate to prevent the Provider from making use of the principles and ideas created or produced by the Provider in any document, material, idea, data or other information, (including systems and methodologies, reports, preparatory works, drafts, working papers, correspondence and advice), except those created or supplied by the GBSLEP, in future assignments or in relation to potential future assignments.

	•	Where pre-existing deliverables are incorporated into the provision of Goods or Services, GBSLEP has a non-exclusive irrevocable worldwide royalty free licence to use, modify and distribute such pre-existing works, for the purposes of this Contract only.

	•	The Provider hereby assigns to GBSLEP all existing and future IPR in the Deliverables and all materials embodying these rights to the fullest extent permitted by law.  Insofar as they do not vest automatically by operation of law or under this Contract, the Provider holds legal title in these rights on trust for the GBSLEP.

	•	The Provider undertakes:
	•	not to register nor attempt to register any of the IPR in the Deliverables unless requested to do so by the GBSLEP; and 
(b)	to do all acts necessary to confirm that absolute title in all IPR in the Deliverables has passed, or will pass, to the GBSLEP

	•	The Provider warrants that:
(a)	the Provider has not given and will not give permission to any third party to use any of the Deliverables nor any of the IPR in the Deliverables;
(b)	the Provider is unaware of any use by any third party of any of the Deliverables or IPR in the Deliverables; and
(c)	the use of the Deliverables or the IPR in the Deliverables by GBSLEP will not infringe the rights of any third party.

	•	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Contract, and for the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Contract shall operate to give any right of ownership or use of the methods and systems employed by the GBSLEP.

	•	The Provider agrees to indemnify GBSLEP and keep it indemnified at all times against all or any costs, claims, damages or expenses incurred by the GBSLEP, or for which GBSLEP may become liable, with respect to any intellectual property infringement claim or other claim relating to the Deliverables supplied by the Provider to GBSLEP during the course of the providing the Goods or Services.

	•	The Provider acknowledge that no further remuneration or compensation other than that provided for in this Contract is or may become due to the Provider in respect of the performance of the Provider’s obligations under these Conditions 5.6 to 5.14.




	•	LIABILITY AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS

	•	The Provider will perform the provision of Goods and Services with reasonable skill and reasonable care. 

	•	The Provider shall have liability for and shall indemnify GBSLEP against any data breach, all direct losses, and losses arising out of any claims, demands, fines, penalties, actions, investigations or proceedings and costs (including reasonable legal costs), arising out of the negligent performance or non-performance of the provision of Goods or Services and shall accordingly maintain in force during the Contract Term full and comprehensive insurance policies.

	•	Subject to the provisions of Condition 6.2 above, neither Party shall have any liability to the other under, or in connection with this Contract howsoever arising in respect of indirect or consequential loss or damage however caused. 

	•	The Provider shall take out and maintain for the duration of the Services with reputable insurers: -
(a)	Public liability insurance of an appropriate level for any one event or series of connected events; and/or
(b)	Professional indemnity insurance of an appropriate level of per annum in aggregate of all claims in connection with this Contract or otherwise; and/or
(c)	Employers’ liability insurance as required by the Employers’ Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969, as amended

	•	In any event, or notwithstanding any other term in this Contract, the Providers liability in contract, tort (including negligence or statutory duty) or otherwise arising by reason of or in connection with this Contract (except in relation to death or personal injury caused by negligence) shall be limited in aggregate per year to:
(a)	Where under the terms of Condition 6.4 or otherwise under this Contract, the Provider are obliged to hold insurance in respect of the matter from which the liability arises, the insurance levels set by the Provider under Condition 6.4 or otherwise required under this Contract;
(b)	In respect of matters for which the Provider are not obliged to hold insurance under the terms of Condition 6.4, or otherwise under this Contract, the Price payable by GBSLEP to the Provider in the year in which the liability arises.

	•	The GBSLEP’s liability in contract, tort (including negligence or statutory duty) or otherwise arising by reason of or in connection with this Contract (except in relation to death or personal injury caused by negligence) shall be limited to in aggregate per year to [one hundred per cent (100%) of the Fee] payable by GBSLEP to the Provider in the year in which the liability arises.

	•	For the purposes of Conditions 6.4 and 6.5 “year” shall mean the period of 12 months from the Commencement Date or any anniversary thereof.


	•	The Provider shall on request supply to GBSLEP copies of the insurance policies and evidence that the relevant premiums have been paid.


	•	PRICE AND PAYMENT

	•	GBSLEP shall pay the fee (“the Price”) for the Goods or Services to the Provider as stated in the Order or in any subsequently agreed Variation.

	•	The Provider may invoice GBSLEP on or at any time after delivery of the Goods or performance of the Services, as the case may be, and each invoice shall quote the number of the Order.

	•	Payment of any undisputed invoice will be made no later than thirty (30) days following the date of receipt of the invoice by the GBSLEP.

	•	GBSLEP reserves the right to withhold payment of the relevant part of the Price without payment of interest where the Provider have either failed to provide the provision of Goods or Services at all or have provided the Services inadequately and any invoice relating to such Goods or Services will not be paid unless or until the Goods or Services have been performed to the GBSLEP’s satisfaction.

	•	Any overdue sums will bear interest from the due date until payment is made at 3% per annum over the Co-operative Bank plc base rate from time to time.  The Provider is not entitled to suspend provision of the Goods or Services as a result of any overdue sums.

	•	GBSLEP may set off against the Price any sums owed to GBSLEP by the Provider. 

	•	TERMINATION

	•	Subject to the provisions of condition [10] (Force Majeure) GBSLEP may terminate the Contract with immediate effect by notice in writing to the Provider on or at any time if the Provider: -
a)   becomes bankrupt, insolvent, makes any composition with its creditors, has a receiver appointed under the Mental Health Act 1983 or dies;
b)    are convicted of a criminal offence;
c)  ceases or threatens to cease to carry on the Provider’s business;
d)  has a change in Control which GBSLEP believes will have a substantial impact on the performance of the Contract;
e)  there is a risk or a genuine belief that there is a risk that reputational damage to GBSLEP will occur as a result of the Contract continuing;
f)    is in breach of any of the Provider’s obligations under this Contract that is capable of remedy and which has not been remedied to the satisfaction of GBSLEP within 14 days, or such other reasonable period as may be specified by GBSLEP after issue of a written notice specifying the breach and requesting it to be remedied;
g)   there is a material or substantial breach by the Provider of any of the Provider’s obligations under this Contract which is incapable of remedy; or
h)   the Provider commits persistent minor breaches of this Contract whether remedied or not.




	•	GBSLEP reserves the right to terminate the Contract in part in the case of termination under Conditions 8.1 (f), (g) and (h).

	•	GBSLEP has the right to terminate any individual Order or Orders or the whole Contract under the provisions of Condition 8.1. 

	•	GBSLEP reserves the right to terminate the Contract at will, in whole or in part, at any time with or without notice except that it will give as much notice as possible in the circumstances.

Prevention of Corruption

	•	GBSLEP shall be entitled forthwith to terminate this Contract by delivery of written notice to the Provider if the Provider shall have: -
a) offered, promised or given a financial or other advantage to another person; and either:
b) the Provider intended the advantage to induce a person to perform improperly a relevant function or activity in relation to the obtaining or execution of the Contract or any other contract with the GBSLEP; or
c) The Provider knows or believes that the acceptance of the advantage would itself constitute the improper performance of the relevant function or activity in relation to the obtaining or execution of the Contract or any other contract with the GBSLEP; or
d) If the like act or acts shall have been done by any person employed by the Provider or associated with the Provider (whether with or without the Provider’s knowledge); or
e) If in relation to any contract with GBSLEP the Provider or any person employed by the Provider or associated with the Provider shall have: -
(i) committed an offence or offences under the Bribery Act 2010; or
(ii) given any fee or reward to an officer of GBSLEP the acceptance of which is an offence under Section 117(2) Local Government Act 1972.

	•	Such termination shall not affect the continuing application of any provisions of the Contract, which are expressed as or are capable of having effect after the termination of the Contract.

Consequences of Termination

	•	If this Contract is terminated in whole or in part GBSLEP shall:
a) only be liable to pay to the Provider for such elements of the Price, if any, that have properly accrued in accordance with the Contract or the affected part of the Contract up to the time of the termination; and/or
b) except for termination under Condition 8.1 (d), be entitled to deduct from any sum or sums which would have been due from GBSLEP to the Provider under this Contract or any other contract and to recover the same from the Provider as a debt any sum in respect of any loss or damage to GBSLEP resulting from or arising out of the termination of this Contract.  Such loss or damage shall include the reasonable cost to GBSLEP of the time spent by its officers in terminating the Contract and in making alternative arrangements for the supply of the provision of Goods or Services or any parts of them; and/or
c) where termination arises under Condition 8.1 (d), pay the Provider for any reasonable, direct and quantifiable costs reasonably incurred by the Provider due to early termination subject to the maximum liability provision in Condition 6.5 and/or

d) in the event that any sum of money owed by the Provider to GBSLEP (the Provider’s debt) exceeds any sum of money owed by GBSLEP to the Provider (the GBSLEP’s debt) under this Contract then GBSLEP shall, at its sole discretion, be entitled to deduct the Provider’s debt from any future GBSLEP’s debt or to recover the Provider’s debt as a civil debt.

	•	Upon the termination of the Contract for any reason, subject as otherwise provided in this Contract and to any rights or obligations which have accrued prior to termination, neither Party shall have any further obligation to the other under the Contract.

Termination by the Provider

	•	If GBSLEP shall fail to pay to the Provider any sum due under this Contract and GBSLEP shall fail to remedy such breach within [28 days] of the service of a written notice upon GBSLEP specifying such breach, then the Provider shall be entitled to terminate this Contract by [28 days] written notice to the GBSLEP.

Consequences of Termination by the Provider

	•	If the Provider shall terminate this Contract under Condition 8.9 the Provider shall be entitled to receive: -
a) payment for the performance of the Services up to the date of termination; and
b) any direct loss and/or expense arising out of the termination of the Contract.

	•	DISPUTE RESOLUTION

	•	If a dispute arises between GBSLEP and the Provider in connection with this Contract, the GBSLEP’s Representative and the Providers Representative shall each use reasonable endeavours to resolve such dispute by means of prompt discussion.

	•	If a dispute is not resolved within fourteen (14) days of referral under Condition 9.1 then either party may refer it to a senior manager or appropriate nominated officer of each Party for resolution who shall meet for discussion within 14 days or longer period as the parties may agree.

Mediation

	•	If any dispute is not resolved under Conditions 9.1 & 9.2, either of the Parties may initiate mediation by giving an Alternative Dispute Resolution (“ADR Notice”) to the other in writing requesting mediation.  A copy of the ADR Notice shall also be sent to Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution (CEDR).

	•	The Procedure in the CEDR’s Model Procedure shall be amended to take account of:-
any relevant provision in this Contract; and
any other additional agreement which the Parties may enter into in relation to the conduct of the mediation.


	•	The Procedure in the CEDR’s Model Procedure shall be amended to take account of: -
any relevant provision in this Contract; and
any other additional agreement which the Parties may enter into in relation to the conduct of the mediation.

	•	The mediation will start not later than 4 weeks after the date of the ADR Notice

	•	Neither of the Parties may terminate the mediation until each of the Parties has made its opening presentation and the mediator has met each of the parties separately for 1 hour.  Thereafter Paragraph 14 of the Model Procedure will apply.

	•	GENERAL TERMS 

Force majeure

	•	Neither Party shall be liable for failure to perform its obligations under the Contract if such failure results from any event or occurrence which is outside the reasonable control of the Party concerned and which is attributable to any act or failure to take preventative action by that Party including strike, lock-out, fire, explosion or accident or any stoppage of either Party’s business or work beyond the Party’s control or any other event or circumstance (whether arising from natural causes human agency or otherwise) beyond the control of the Party concerned (“Force Majeure”).

	•	If GBSLEP or the delivery location is affected by circumstance of Force Majeure, GBSLEP shall be entitled to, totally or partially, suspend the date or dates for delivery of the Goods or Services until the circumstances of the Force Majeure have ceased.  The suspension shall not give rise to any claim by the Provider against GBSLEP nor entitle the Provider to terminate the Contract.

	•	Industrial action by, or illness or shortage of the Provider’s staff, agents or subcontractors, failure or delay by any of the Provider’s suppliers to supply goods, components, services or materials and breach of any of the Provider’s warranties under Conditions 1.11, 4.8 and 4.18 shall not be regarded as an event of Force Majeure.

	•	If the event of Force Majeure continues for more than two (2) months either Party may give written notice to the other to terminate the Contract immediately or on a set termination date.


	•	If the Contract is terminated in accordance with Condition 10.4 neither Party will have any liability to the other except that any rights and liabilities which accrued prior to termination will continue to exist.

Governing law jurisdiction
	•	The Contract and our relationship is governed by and interpreted in accordance with English law.  A claim may only be brought against the other Party (in contract, tort or otherwise) if it can be brought in English law without reference to the law of any other country.

	•	The Courts of England and Wales shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute (including claims for set-off and counterclaim) that may arise in connection with any aspect of the legal relationship established by the Contract or otherwise arising in connection with this Contract.  The Parties each submit irrevocably to the jurisdiction of the Courts of England and Wales. 

Third Party Rights

	•	Subject to Condition 4.6, a person who is not party to this Contract ("Third Party") has no right to enforce any term of this Contract but this does not affect any right or remedy of any person which exists or is available otherwise than pursuant to the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999. If the Parties rescind this contract or vary any of its terms in accordance with the relevant provisions of this contract, such rescission or variation will not require the consent of any Third Party.

	•	Notwithstanding the provisions of Condition 10.8, any of the Benefitting Employees shall have the right to enforce their rights under Condition 4.6 (Payment of Living Wage) of this Contract.


No Waiver

	•	Failure by either party at any time to enforce any one or more of the provisions of this Contract or to require performance by the other Party of any of the provisions shall not constitute or be construed as a waiver of the provision or of the right at any time subsequently to enforce all terms and conditions of this Contract nor affect the validity of the Contract or any part of it or the right of the parties to enforce any provision in accordance with its terms.

Severance
	•	If any provision of the Contract shall become or shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable in any way, such invalidity shall not impair or affect any other provision all of which shall remain in full force and effect.












 


