Tees Valley Combined Authority


Creative Industries Sustainable Sector Growth Framework
and
Capital Investment Leverage Framework








Baseline report 

December 2021


Contents
Contents	2
Figures	5
Tables	6
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY	8
1.	CULTURAL & CREATIVE INDUSTRIES	10
Methodology	10
1.1	SCALE, SIGNIFICANCE AND CHARACTERISTICS OF CULTURAL AND CREATIVE INDUSTRIES IN TEES VALLEY	15
1.2	CREATIVE WORKFORCE	20
1.3	CREATIVE ASSETS AND CLUSTERS	28
1.4	PRODUCTIVITY	33
1.5	REGIONAL COMPETITIVENESS	41
1.6	CONSULTATION	45
1.7	POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH IN TEES VALLEY’S CREATIVE SECTORS	48
1.7.1	SCREEN INDUSTRIES	49
1.7.2	MUSIC	60
1.7.3	VISUAL ARTS	64
1.7.4	PERFORMING ARTS	69
1.7.5	LITERATURE AND LITERARY PUBLISHING	70
2.	EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION	71
Findings	73
Recommended actions:	76
3.	SKILLS	77
Methodology	77
3.1	Skills - Executive Summary	77
3.2	Needs assessment	79
3.3	Screen industries skills	85
3.4	Analysis of Provider Survey	87
3.5	Analysis of Employer Needs	94
4.	BENCHMARKS AND COMPARATORS	99
4.1	Public Funding of Non-profit Culture	99
4.2	Comparator cities and regions	99
5.	CAPITAL INVESTMENT LEVERAGE FRAMEWORK	104
5.1	Cultural assets of Tees Valley	104
5.2 Creative clusters and microclusters in Tees Valley	105
5.2	Horizon Scan of Funding and Financing Opportunities	117
A.	Funding specific to arts, culture or heritage	117
B.	National public funding programmes (not culture specific)	122
C. Social investment, Trusts & Foundations, Crowdfunding/Individual Giving	124
D.	Existing investments	125
5.3	Analysis and interpretation	130
5.4	Investment review	130
5.5	Investment opportunities	141
APPENDIX A: Population and cultural engagement profiling	144
Key summary statistics from this section	144
Overview of data used	144
APPENDIX B: Sector definitions	158
APPENDIX C: Consultees	165
APPENDIX D: Visual arts assets	169
APPENDIX E: Social & impact investing	171
What is social & impact investing?	171
Who are the key players in the UK and how do they relate to each other?	171
Is there any impact investing in the Creative & Cultural space?	172
APPENDIX F: References	173
Arts/culture (including audience data)	173
Creative industries (including digital and music)	173
Place (inc. heritage)	174
Festivals and events	175
TVCA Festivals & Events	175
OTHER	176
Screen industries	176
Business support and skills	178
Local investment plans	178
Covid-19	179
Equality, diversity and inclusion	179
Figures
Figure 1  Overlapping sector definitions	9
Figure 2  Evolution in count of Tees Valley CCI businesses, 2015-2021	14
Figure 3  Tees Valley CCI subsectors 2021 (n = 2,050)	15
Figure 4  TVCA registered CCI businesses by supply chain	16
Figure 5  TVCA registered CCI businesses by location	17
Figure 6  Creative enterprises in Tees Valley 2021	17
Figure 7  Location of creative enterprises by borough (n = 2,476)	18
Figure 8  Number of TVCA Creative enterprises by supply chain	18
Figure 9  Evolution of Tees Valley creative industries employment (BRES), 2015-2020 (1)	19
Figure 10  Evolution of Tees Valley creative industries employment, 2015- 2020 (2)	20
Figure 11   Comparison of Tees Valley creative workforce: LinkedIn 2021 vs BRES 2019 and 2020	21
Figure 12  Employment in creative and digital supply chains	22
Figure 13  Diversity in the creative industry workforce	23
Figure 14  Proportion of females in Tees Valley's creative workforce	24
Figure 15  Emerging creative microclusters	29
Figure 16  Share of total CCI turnover by turnover band	32
Figure 17  Turnover of TVCA CCI organisations by supply chain	33
Figure 18  Count of TVCA CCIs by turnover band and place	34
Figure 19  Turnover of TVCA CCI organisations by location	35
Figure 20  Share of CCI turnover by location	35
Figure 21  Analysis of total CCI turnover by location and turnover band	36
Figure 22  Economic impacts of arts, culture & heritage activity	38
Figure 23  Comparison of cultural sector employment in Tees Valley with other Combined Authority areas	40
Figure 24  Comparison of creative industries employment in Tees Valley with other Combined Authority areas	42
Figure 25  Economic impacts of arts & culture by region	43
Figure 26  Primary commissioning value of UK television productions by region of production 2015-2020	52
Figure 27  Viewing habits of individuals - Ofcom 2020	54
Figure 28  Value of music tourism to the North East, 2019	59
Figure 29  PRS Foundation	63
Figure 30  Creative and Cultural Skills - workforce by English region	69
Figure 31  Provider responses: EDI and future trends	72
Figure 32  Analysis of creative skills pathways in Tees Valley	81
Figure 33  Analysis of creative skills pathways including Leeds and York	82
Figure 34  Trends affecting the UK screen industries in the next five to 10 years	85
Figure 35 Responses to provider survey - employer engagement	86
Figure 36  Factors influencing creative course recruitment	88
Figure 37  New creative skills course development	89
Figure 38  Influence of funding levels on creative course development	90
Figure 39  Tees Valley cultural assets map	103
Figure 40  Comparison of clustering in Tees Valley, Greater Brighton and Greater Manchester	104
Figure 41 Funding mix for Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter	126
Figure 42  Logic model for Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter	127
Figure 43  Investment from Lottery Distributors by local authority area	135
Figure 44  Population size in TVCA local authority areas	145
Figure 45  Social Grade of residents in TVCA	146
Figure 46  Audience Spectrum profile for TVCA residents based on High/ Medium / Low engaged Audience Spectrum segments	148
Figure 47  Audience Spectrum profile comparison - TVCA bookers and non-TVCA bookers	153

Tables

Table 1  Relationship between non-profit and for-profit creative sub-sectors	10
Table 2  LinkedIn industry codes	13
Table 4  Tees Valley creative workforce by borough, LinkedIn 2021	23
Table 5  Nesta geography of creativity (2016) – extract	27
Table 6  'Traffic light' rating of TVCA creative clusters	28
Table 7  Contribution of creative enterprises by turnover segment	33
Table 8  Change in cultural sector employment 2019-2020	40
Table 9  Change in cultural employment in Combined Authority areas 2015-20	41
Table 10 SWOT - Tees Valley Creative Industries	47
Table 11  SWOT - screen industries	56
Table 12  Music venues in Tees Valley	60
Table 13  Visual arts: gaps and opportunities	64
Table 14  Visual arts: examples of type of support needed	65
Table 15 SWOT - performing arts	68
Table 16  Top 10 key design skills, Top 10 gaps/shortages	78
Table 17  Skills examples and benchmarks	96
Table 18  Clustering within local authority areas	105
Table 19  Distribution of creative enterprises by turnover band	110
Table 20  Distribution of creative enterprises (registered businesses only) by turnover band and local authority area	111
Table 21  Turnover bands by supply chain and local authority area, including charities and other organisations	112
Table 22  Average turnover by supply chain and location	113
Table 23  Funding for Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter	125
Table 24  Investment by funder type	130
Table 25  Investment by year	131
Table 26  Investment to organisations by local authority area	131
Table 27  Arts Council England investment by place	132
Table 28  Arts Council England grants	133
Table 29  Investment from Lottery Distributors for cultural purposes	134
Table 30  COVID-specific grants identified	135
Table 31  ACE investment in Liverpool City Region	136
Table 32  ACE investment in Liverpool (City Council area only)	136
Table 33  non-ACE funding for arts, culture and heritage in Liverpool	137
Table 34  Northern Film & Media investment in Tees Valley-based organisations	137
Table 35  Per capita NPO funding agreements (2019/19 to 2021/22)	138
Table 36  Gain to TVCA if ACE grants were levelled up to all-England average	139
Table 37   Annual gain were NHLF investment to be levelled-up to the all-England average	139
Table 38  Population size in TVCA LAs	144
Table 39  Social Grade of residents in TVCA and compared to England	145
Table 40 Employment status of residents in TVCA and compared to England	146
Table 41  Audience Spectrum profile for TVCA residents based on High/ Medium / Low engaged Audience Spectrum segments	148
Table 42  Audience Spectrum profile comparison - TVCA bookers and TVCA population	150
Table 43  Audience Spectrum profile comparison - TVCA bookers and TVCA population	151
Table 44  Booking comparison - TVCA bookers and non-TVCA bookers	152
Table 45  Audience Spectrum - origins	152
Table 46  Age comparison - TVCA residents and non-TVCA residents	154
Table 47  Motivations comparison - TVCA residents and non-TVCA residents	155
Table 48 Standard Occupational Classifications (SOC codes) used to define Creative Industries	157
Table 49  Standard Industrial Classifications (SIC codes) used in DCMS subsector estimates	158
Table 50 Relationship between DCMS sector definitions for culture, creative industries and digital sectors	162
Table 51 Consultees	164
Table 52  Visual arts assets	168

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Lacking in scale and visibility and with limited evidence of specialisation, Tees Valley nonetheless contains potential to leverage new investment in culture, creative industries and adjacent sectors to drive profitable investment in IP and jobs growth. Across the Combined Authority area, we find a critical ecology in the form of the independent cultural sector, which is both much larger than represented in official statistics and more diverse and inclusive than the general population. If those independents can be better coordinated and motivated toward greater collaboration and investment in new creative IP, this, along with new investment from BBC, could represent a tipping point for the sector in Tees Valley. 
National statistics report that Tees Valley has the smallest cultural and creative industries cluster of any of the ten Combined Authority areas, reflecting its smaller population and overall business base. Creative industries jobs represent only 1.3% of total employment, the lowest proportion of any CA area, and third (Greater Manchester, 4.0%) to a fifth (West of England, 6.8%) of that in creative industries of other major conurbations. 
This lack of scale applies at both ‘macro’ and ‘micro’ level – it is a small sector, made up overwhelmingly of freelancers and microenterprises, and in that way very different from the ‘traditional’ manufacturing-led businesses with which the region is identified. Creative enterprises with turnover of less than £1m make up 98% of the sector and generate revenues of £195 million per annum – 56% of the sector total (2019). That lack of scale is reflected in leakage of talent to other areas with more consistent freelance and employment opportunities, and a lack of resilience: Tees Valley has lost a higher overall percentage of creative employment than any other Combined Authority area in the period since 2015, with a declining trend in some cultural sectors evident even before the impact of Covid.
However, there is another, more positive side to this story. Analysis of LinkedIn shows a cultural and creative workforce resident in Tees Valley to be between 8,000 to 10,000 individuals - two to three times larger than shown in official employment data. Our engagement with artists and stakeholders confirms that this ‘independent’ sector of freelancers, microbusinesses and arts organisations is more diverse than the population of Tees Valley - an important factor in attracting more diverse and inclusive audiences from within the region, nationally and  internationally.
Although sector productivity is below the national average, our research confirmed the continuing growth of a more established, specialised, high-performing and interdependent cluster of digital and creative businesses in Middlesbrough and Stockton-on-Tees previously identified in Nesta research into creative clusters in 2016.
In addition, each borough shows evidence of one or two wards within which emerging specialisations across some or all creative supply chains (content, experiences, originals, services and digital) are key to development of ‘microclusters’ with potential for greater collaboration, productivity and growth. New investments – including those from the BBC, the relocation of civil service jobs to Darlington and the Railway Bicentennial – present the potential to diversify and grow markets and audiences for creative services and experiences.
BBC’s recent commitment to invest £25 million in the North East presents a perfect opportunity for Tees Valley to capitalise on those nascent strengths in screen industries, including games, animation and visual effects. The Northern Studios offers a potential advantage both as a location for new production and as a hub for a sustainable production services sector to provide infrastructure and support for screen, music and live events sectors across the North and North East.
There is a flourishing scene of independent visual and performing artists, producing diverse work of international quality both through a programme of festivals and events and at visual arts showcases across the region. This represents an opportunity to stimulate regeneration of key locations in towns across the region and in the process to promote a more contemporary and diverse identity that builds upon the Tees Valley’s heritage of innovation without being in thrall to its industrial past.
The potential economic and social impact of culture and the creative industries can be greatly amplified by a consistent focus on training and development, not just of craft and technical skills but also of management and leadership to encourage businesses to scale up in situ and freelancers to exploit the growth in demand from sectors such as screen industries and live events and to collaborate in the development of new opportunities from a base within Tees Valley rather than leaving in search of wider markets. That will serve not only to grow sector output, but also to increase the knowledge intensity of Tees Valley’s economy.
Tailored talent development and enterprise support would address the specific nature of supply chains and market opportunities in the creative industries, reflecting the project-based nature of activities which generate revenue from original IP. That can be most effectively targetted by investment in existing sector bodies, such as Tees Valley Screen, and supporting the development of similar platforms for music, live events and visual arts. This can be further amplified by promoting more organisations to gain NPO status as part of a strategy to secure a larger and more equitable share of government investment through the Arts Council and other arms-length funding bodies in the process.
Support to address diversity and inclusion, including individuals with protected characteristics and addressing the chronic and national gap in creating opportunities for people from lower socio-economic backgrounds within this, can help address ongoing skills shortages in this, the fastest growing sector of the economy over the last two decades. Without this, there can be no ‘levelling up’ either within the sector or between Tees Valley and other more established locations for culture and creative industries in the UK.
	•	CULTURAL & CREATIVE INDUSTRIES
Methodology
Definitions of cultural, creative and digital employment
One of the main difficulties in assessing the scale and significance of cultural and creative industries relates to the different definitions used by government and industry bodies, the way in which those are used to create estimates of employment and the way in which those are interpreted. 
The Department of Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) uses a combination of Standard Industrial Classifications (SIC codes) and Standard Occupational Classifications (SOC codes) to determine the scope of the creative industries, and in turn to produce estimates of its scale and value. The methodology takes as its starting point a number of creative occupations (Table 48) and looks at their concentration within industries as defined by SIC codes (Table 49), which then form the basis of the sector.
Most mapping studies of the creative industries in the UK are based upon the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport (DCMS) definition of cultural, creative and digital industries. This is based on groupings of Standard Industrial Classification (SIC codes), whose categories overlap – ‘cultural’ sectors including film, television and music appear both within creative industries and in the ‘digital’ industries definition. 

Figure 1  Overlapping sector definitions

Source: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/dcms-sectors-economic-estimates-methodology/dcms-sector-economic-estimates-methodology
Whilst new categories have been introduced since this definition was adopted in 2000, notably in games, there is widespread acceptance that this methodology has constraints when it comes to measuring cultural and creative activity, particularly around articulating the ‘portfolio’ and freelance nature of much creative employment and in reflecting the emergence of new forms of digital cultural production, such as those around XR (augmented, extended, mixed and virtual reality).
Nonetheless, SIC code-based analysis of ONS data provides a nationally comparable set of statistics which also present the opportunity to analyse changes in sector composition, at a high level, over time. Therefore, our mapping of TVCA’s cultural & creative industries (CCI) reflects those classifications in part whilst adding some innovative methods which combine to give a more detailed picture of the composition, scale and economic output of the business base and workforce of the creative industries in Tees Valley, as well as their clustering, productivity and competitiveness.
Relationship between non-profit and commercial activity in cultural and creative industries
The assumption that ‘cultural’ production equates to not-for-profit activity, and that ‘creative industries’ is an entirely different, commercial sector, does not hold good in reality. A plurality of creative enterprises – both registered businesses, freelance workers and self-employed artists – will operate a ‘mixed economy’ portfolio of both ‘not-for-profit’ and commercial work, as highlighted in Table 2, below.
This means that sector growth planning needs to take account of the R&D inputs represented by not-for-profit activity, as well as the critical role of volunteering and paid work in the not-for-profit sector in developing skills and experience essential in pursuit of a commercially viable career.
Table 1  Relationship between non-profit and for-profit creative sub-sectors
Creative Industries sub-sector
Non-profit
For profit
Arts & Culture
	•	Services run by local authorities, universities, charities, social enterprises of community /voluntary groups
	•	Non-profits developing skills and talent
	•	Sector support organisations
	•	Commercial galleries, theatres and producers
	•	Privately / commercially managed / owned heritage buildings, land of other heritage attractions
	•	Performing artists, creatives, technicians and their agents
Digital / Createch
	•	Creative digital activities within not-for-profit organisations
	•	Non-cultural ‘Tech4Good’
	•	Commercial businesses ranging from creative digital design through games, apps and software publishers to IT services and consultancy
Film & television
	•	Producers and distributors of ‘cultural film
	•	Non-profit cinemas, screening venues and touring networks
	•	Image, audio, immersive output within non-profit organisations
	•	Public service broadcasting
	•	Broadcasters, producers, production services and design, post-production, distribution, sales, cinemas, entertainment licensing and retail etc
	•	Performing artists, creatives and technicians, and their agents
Music
	•	Funded venues, orchestras and talent development
	•	Commercial producers, labels, promoters, venue
	•	Performing artists, creatives and technicians, and their agents
Publishing
	•	The funded literature sector
	•	Non-profits developing readers or writers
	•	Authors and their agents
	•	Commercial publishing
	•	Commercial bookshops
	•	Commercial online book and e-book platforms

Source: The Audience Agency (2021)
Innovative approaches to address gaps in workforce data
In addition to an analysis of ONS data, we have applied an innovative method, developed by The Fifth Sector in partnership with Curator Technologies to address gaps in the evidence base relating to freelance employment. This uses LinkedIn as a massive survey sample – the site has 29 million registered users in the UK, out of a total working population of 33 million. Data is searched by place-based identifiers – names of towns and cities, and LinkedIn industry codes. 
LinkedIn industry codes (detailed in Table 2) are more reflective of a modern creative economy and allow us to differentiate more clearly between the overlapping definitions of culture, creative and digital industries used in national statistics. 
Understanding the creative/digital split
We include four digital industry descriptors in our search of LinkedIn:
	•	Computer Networking
	•	Computer Software
	•	Computer & Network Security
	•	Information Technology and Services
We do this for three reasons:
	•	They overlap with the DCMS definition of ‘IT, software and computer services.’
	•	They form an integral part of digital supply chains into sectors such as advertising and marketing, animation, architecture, computer and mobile games and film and television.
	•	Employment within those digital industries includes a sizable proportion of ‘creative and production’ roles – the same rationale used for DCMS’s definition of creative industries sectors as those with a proportion of creative occupations above a threshold (typically 30%).
We can therefore differentiate between creative and non-creative employment in digital sectors and use supply chain analysis to derive a ‘fingerprint’ of the creative workforce which more clearly illustrates strengths, gaps and areas of potential growth.
Innovative approaches to address gaps in evidence of economic performance
Whilst it is recognised that local authorities, charities and third sector organisations have an important role in the preservation of heritage and production of cultural experiences, there is no single source of data which looks to include these inputs and outputs alongside company data. We have combined data from several complementary sources, and our own research with local councils, to identify approximately 2,800 organisations, venues and assets across Tees Valley. This database uses a set of SIC codes which is consistent with DCMS definitions of cultural, creative and digital industries wherever possible and combined data from:
	•	TVCA and partners
	•	Dun & Bradstreet (named town and SIC code searches)
	•	Charity Commission searches
	•	Existing databases held by The Fifth Sector and consortium partners


Table 2  LinkedIn industry codes
LinkedIn Industry Code 
Approximates to DCMS sector
Creative supply chain
Animation
Film & TV
Content
Apparel & Fashion
Design and Designer Fashion
Original
Architecture & Planning
Architecture
Service
Arts and Crafts
Music, performing and visual arts, Crafts
Originals
Broadcast Media
Film & TV
Content
Computer & Network Security
IT, software and computer services
Digital
Computer Games
IT, software and computer services
Content
Computer Networking
Digital
Digital
Computer Software
IT, software and computer services
Digital
Design
Design and Designer Fashion
Services
Fine Art
Music, performing and visual arts
Originals
Graphic Design
Design and Designer Fashion
Services
Libraries
Museums, galleries and libraries
Experiences
Luxury Goods & Jewelry
Crafts, Design and Designer Fashion
Originals
Marketing and Advertising
Advertising and marketing
Services
Media Production
Film & TV
Content
Mobile Games
IT, software and computer services
Content
Motion Pictures and Film
Film & TV
Content
Museums and Institutions
Museums, galleries and libraries
Experiences
Music
Film & TV, Music, performing and visual arts
Content
Newspapers
Publishing
Content
Online Media
IT, software and computer services
Content
Performing Arts
Music, performing and visual arts
Experiences
Photography
Film & TV
Content
Public Relations and Communications
Advertising and marketing
Services
Publishing
Publishing
Content
Translation and Localization
Publishing
Content

Source: The Fifth Sector/Curator Technologies 2021

1.1	SCALE, SIGNIFICANCE AND CHARACTERISTICS OF CULTURAL AND CREATIVE INDUSTRIES IN TEES VALLEY
Creative businesses
Office of National Statistics (ONS) business counts are the measure commonly referred to in national data on cultural and creative industries (CCI). This record shows little or no growth in company numbers in Tees Valley between 2015-2021. Tees Valley added only a net 65 companies over this period, growing from 885 to 950 businesses (7%), of which 915 were micro-enterprises and 820 employed four people or fewer. Creative businesses represent 4.8% of the Tees Valley business base
These figures also reflect initial impacts of COVID; there were slightly more active businesses in the last full year before the Covid pandemic than in 2021 (960 vs 950).
The data also indicate relative stagnation in some creative sectors, with only the ‘creative content’ supply chain, consisting of IT, software & computer services, Film & TV, animation and Publishing, showing significant growth.

Figure 2  Evolution in count of Tees Valley CCI businesses, 2015-2021

Source: The Fifth Sector analysis of NOMIS, 17 November 2021

The number of creative businesses has fluctuated but remained relatively static. But number of businesses alone is not necessarily a good indicator of growth – for example, it is likely that many of the people made redundant as a result of the pandemic will look to start businesses as their only option in an environment where existing firms are not hiring, but that in itself tells us nothing about the health of the sector. Average company size is more relevant – and there is evidence that this has grown in creative content sectors, reflecting their relative resilience.

This evidence, however, seems a partial record when compared with our own analysis. 
Search of Companies House and analysis of Dun & Bradstreet data, using SIC codes identified within DCMS definition of 'Culture and Creative Industries', identified 2,050 businesses with registered offices in Tees Valley – more than double the ONS estimate. 
Analysing those results shows that music, performing and visual arts is the largest single creative subsector in Tees Valley, whilst ‘content creation’ – screen industries, computer games and software development – is of considerably greater significance than reflected in ONS data.

Figure 3  Tees Valley CCI subsectors 2021 (n = 2,050)

Source: The Fifth Sector / Curator Technologies  – analysis of Companies House/Dun & Bradstreet data 2021 
Supply chain analysis
Combining the location and SIC-based searches of Companies House and Dun & Bradstreet with searches of Charities Commission records (June 2021) and evidence from TVCA and our own databases identified 2,050 registered businesses, 426 charities, 64 natural heritage assets (for which we have no turnover data), 15 creative workspaces and a further 187 organisations based outside Tees Valley with some evidence of operations within the Combined Authority geography – some 2,800 creative organisations in total – for which we have turnover data for about 2,200.
In order to be able to take a consistent approach to understanding the relationship between companies, locations, workforce, turnover and provision of skills, we apply groupings by supply chain, which looks not only creative outputs, but considers elements of common workforce, including freelancers, and suppliers. This highlights potential for collaboration, development of transferable skills and integrated working between sectors.
The five supply chain groupings we apply are:
	•	Creative content: computer/mobile games, publishing, film, video, broadcast media, animation, photography
	•	Creative experiences: music, performing arts (theatre, dance, etc), museums, heritage, libraries 
	•	Creative originals: arts & crafts, fine art, fashion
	•	Creative services: marketing, advertising, built environment, graphic/product/service design
	•	Digital technology: IT consultancy, services, security, networking
Registered companies by location and supply chain
Figure 4 relates these supply chains to business location:

Figure 4  TVCA registered CCI businesses by supply chain

Source: The Fifth Sector/Curator Technologies 2021 – n = 2,050

The ‘content’ supply chain includes some 40 games companies, identified by SIC code. However, we know from our own research, confirmed by a recent Nesta study, that only 35% of games companies use the ‘correct’ SIC codes of ‘Ready-made interactive leisure and entertainment software development’ and ‘Publishing of computer games’. Other computer games companies are registered under other digital SIC codes, such as ‘Business and domestic software development’ and ‘Other software publishing’, or even more generic business and professional service classifications. Therefore, the creative content supply chain may be understated by as many as 80-100 businesses, with a corresponding overstatement of digital companies. If adjusted, this would make creative content the largest supply chain category amongst registered CCI companies in Tees Valley.
Analysing the same data by location shows that Stockton has the largest creative sector, followed in order by Middlesbrough and Darlington (practically identical in size), Hartlepool and Redcar & Cleveland.

Figure 5  TVCA registered CCI businesses by location
	
Source: The Fifth Sector/Curator Technologies 2021 – n = 2,050
Location of creative organisations across Tees Valley
Mapping all creative organisations – including charities - allows us to see the emerging clusters, hot spots and cold spots across Tees Valley.

Figure 6  Creative enterprises in Tees Valley 2021

Source: The Fifth Sector/Curator Technologies 2021


Adding in the other creative organisations gives a slightly changed picture, with evidence of more non-registered creative organisations in both Middlesbrough and Redcar & Cleveland.

Figure 7  Location of creative enterprises by borough (n = 2,476)

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021 

This expanded picture of creative enterprises by supply chain reveals that there are as many charitable and other organisations in the creative experiences supply chain (303) as there are registered companies (302), elevating this to the second largest supply chain grouping overall.

Figure 8  Number of TVCA Creative enterprises by supply chain

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021

	•	CREATIVE WORKFORCE
As highlighted in the methodology section, DCMS uses overlapping definitions of the cultural sector, creative industries and the digital sector. For ease of reference have used the DCMS definition of creative industries and data from the Business Register & Employment Survey (BRES) as the basis for comparison of creative employment within Tees Valley to that of other combined authority areas. But our analysis of sector employment is more sophisticated. It is:
	•	Based on ‘live’ data from individual profiles on LinkedIn, in order to capture the significant amounts of freelance working and self-employment which falls below BRES thresholds
	•	Aggregated and analysed on the basis of the five supply chains (content, experiences, original, services and digital) detailed in 1.1, above
Creative employment – BRES
BRES (2020) gives total creative industries employment in Tees Valley as 3,965 – a fall of 20% from the 4,930 jobs recorded in 2019, and down 34% from 2015’s total of 6,015.

Figure 9  Evolution of Tees Valley creative industries employment (BRES), 2015-2020 (1)

Source: The Fifth Sector analysis of BRES 2020

Stripping out the ‘non-creative’ employment within IT, software and computer services (removing SIC code 6202, computer consultancy, whilst retaining computer games and software development) allows us to see more clearly the trends within creative employment. On this basis, BRES (2020) shows 2,340 creative jobs in Tees Valley – a fall of 840 (26%) from the 2019 total of 3,180. 

Figure 10  Evolution of Tees Valley creative industries employment, 2015- 2020 (2)

Source: The Fifth Sector analysis of BRES 2020

However, there is a more positive finding around company size. Comparing sector employment with the ONS count of creative businesses, again with ‘non-creative’ software consultancy businesses removed, suggests that, whereas the average creative company employed three people in Nesta’s 2016 analysis of the Middlesbrough & Stockton TTWA, this figure rose to 3.5 in 2020.
Cultural workforce – BRES
Using BRES data and the narrower DCMS definition of ‘cultural’ industries (including crafts, visual and performing arts, film, TV and music, operation of cultural venues and historic sites, cultural education, museums, galleries and libraries, manufacture of musical instruments, specialist music retail and reproduction of recorded media), the cultural workforce increased by 265 (21%) between BRES 2017 (cited in the AMION study) and BRES 2019 (1,250 vs 1,515) before falling back to 1,145 (a drop of 24%) in 2020. This reflects the impact of measures to suppress Covid on ‘live’ sectors of the economy.
Creative workforce – LinkedIn
Analysis of LinkedIn shows 12,856 individuals located in Tees Valley working within or actively seeking employment in the cultural, creative and digital industries (June 2021). This is more than three times larger than the total creative industries employment figure of 3,965 given by BRES 2020.

Figure 11   Comparison of Tees Valley creative workforce: LinkedIn 2021 vs BRES 2019 and 2020

The Fifth Sector/Curator Technologies 2021

The greatest discrepancies between BRES and LinkedIn data are in creative originals (1,755 in LinkedIn vs 125 in BRES 2020) and creative services (3,456 vs 465). This could be accounted for by two factors:
	•	High levels of self-employment amongst artists, craftspeople and ‘makers’, which means that many fall below the threshold for BRES.
	•	Rapid increases in employment within ‘digital’ advertising and marketing agencies which may not be registered under one of the SIC codes used by ONS to measure the creative industries sector.
Relationship between LinkedIn and BRES data on creative and digital employment
8,189 individuals within the LinkedIn sample data fall within one of the four creative supply chains (content, experiences, originals and services); but further analysis shows that 1,883 of the total ‘digital’ workforce of 4,667 describe their roles as being in ‘creative and production’ functions. Therefore, we have a high level of confidence that TVCA’s creative workforce numbers at least 10,000 people. 
The diagram below shows the relationship of creative and digital employment between the respective supply chains.

Experiences
1,097


Content
1,881
Digital
4,667


Services
3,456

Originals
1,755
1, 2
3
4
6
7
5
Experiences
1,097


Content
1,881
Digital
4,667


Services
3,456

Originals
1,755
1, 2
3
4
6
7
5


Creative workforce – by borough
Analysing the LinkedIn data by location gives a view of whether any physical agglomeration is taking place within supply chains. It suggests that:
	•	Middlesbrough is developing a cluster around digital and creative content.
	•	Stockton shows signs of clustering around digital and creative services.

Table 4  Tees Valley creative workforce by borough, LinkedIn 2021

The Fifth Sector/Curator Technologies 2021

In-depth analysis of turnover and location of creative enterprises (see 1.3, below) confirms the view of an emerging cluster of digital and creative content businesses across the urban ‘core’ of the Combined Authority area.
Diversity
Analysis carried out by Creative & Cultural Skills (the sector skills council representing the ‘cultural’ element of creative industries) shows that just 5% of the workforce across North and North East, including Yorkshire and Humber, is from a BAME background.

Figure 13  Diversity in the creative industry workforce


There is no analysis of these figures at Tees Valley level, and we were unable to identify an equivalent survey of diversity across the wider creative industries, including the digital creative sectors which show greatest resilience and potential for growth. 
We have, however, been able to use LinkedIn to provide an estimate of the proportion of females in Tees Valley’s creative workforce. As LinkedIn does not contain details of gender, the size of the female creative workforce is estimated through an algorithm which matches individual records against a very long checklist of (international) female given names.

Figure 14  Proportion of females in Tees Valley's creative workforce
 
The Fifth Sector/Curator Technologies 2021

The findings are typical of other studies in that females are most strongly represented in areas of artistic creation (notably fine arts, crafts and ‘making’) and least well represented in digital technology and content. It is notable that, in Tees Valley, the creative originals supply chain is majority female. However, as the growth trend points more toward screen and digital content, these estimates point up the need to address gender diversity in recruitment.
Creative workforce mapping – findings
	•	Creative employment within digital sectors has grown consistently, reflecting increasing convergence between ‘traditional’ sectors such as film and other forms of digital content. This is the area in which a focus on ‘fusion’ skills is critical to securing and accelerating growth.
	•	Employment in digital creative industries (including games, animation and creative applications of digital in professional services such as advertising and marketing) has grown over the period and has even shown growth through the pandemic.
	•	Average company size has grown in creative content sectors, reflecting their relative resilience.
	•	Employment within other creative sectors, especially those within DCMS’s definition of ‘culture’, has fallen, and this has been exacerbated by Covid.
Recovery of the sector depends in part on continuing to fund new work to provide employment and mitigating risk that people will leave the region, the sector or both, and in part on supporting innovation (including digital) across all sectors.
However, there are some other factors that the sector growth plan needs to address:
	•	LinkedIn data is a measure of potential workforce within the region, not employment. Those totals may mask high levels of unemployment, underemployment and individuals forced to work outside the region to access opportunities.
	•	Consultation with the sector and stakeholders consistently reveals key roles are ‘hard to fill’ – especially creative producers and experienced production staff.
	•	Pathways into creative employment are not well articulated (see Section 3, below) and careers support misses it almost completely.
	•	Analysis of employment data highlights problems in measurement – increased opportunity for freelance and collaborative working may not translate into new FTE in a way that will make the GVA impact apparent in the short term.
Impact of COVID 
In addition to the evidence from BRES which shows that Tees Valley lost 840 creative jobs (more than a quarter of the pre-Covid total) from the start of the Covid pandemic, new research from the Creative Industries Federation project that the creative industries in the North East will be the slowest of all English regions to return to pre-pandemic levels. 
The report states that the North East’s creative sector lost £100m during the pandemic, a drop of 9%. In total, nationally the Creative Industries are now estimated to have lost nearly £12 billion in GVA, with job losses expected to reach over 110,000 by the end of the year. Freelancers have been hit more than five times as hard as those on payroll, with 95,000 of the job losses projected to be freelance compared to 18,000 payroll employees. 
In its most recent skills analysis of the screen industries (June 2021) ScreenSkills identified the huge negative impact of COVID on screen industries with the majority reporting no recruitment during 2020/21. Across the UK, employers in games, VFX and animation reported growth and higher demand for content – however, these benefits are not reflected in Tees Valley, where BRES shows employment falls of 26% in games and software development and 45% in film and television between 2019 and 2020. 
The pandemic inflicted immediate costs and losses on the sector, with the cancellation of major events and irreplaceable loss of both revenue from ticket sales and freelance earnings. The lack of scale within these industries in Tees Valley made them more vulnerable to short term losses. LinkedIn data suggest that there is still a significant talent pool resident in Tees Valley – which might indicate that freelancer workers and the recently unemployed sought employment opportunities in other regions. 
It is too soon to assess whether that may have inflicted further longer term, structural damage. The relatively small fall in company numbers – a net loss of only 10 creative businesses in the region between 2019 and 2021 – suggests that companies laid off workers rather than closing. The resulting reduction in average company size (across creative industries as a whole – notwithstanding indications that creative content businesses may actually have grown) would suggest that those surviving businesses will need additional support in restart and recovery – and will need both access to finance, improved access to markets and reassurance to begin to commit resources to the creative R&D essential to their future success.
Anecdotally many people who had relied on seasonal work on events have found other employment and may not return to the sector. The loss of opportunities for volunteering – which can provide both a way to get experience which can lead to paid employment and an important social link between events and the communities in which they take place – are likely to reinforce inequalities and barriers to access for people with protected characteristics and those from economically disadvantaged areas or families with little or no tradition of employment within the cultural and creative sector.

1.3	CREATIVE ASSETS AND CLUSTERS
Nesta’s 2016 report into the geography of creative clusters in the UK identified the Middlesbrough & Stockton Travel to Work Area (TTWA – based on 2011 Census data) as a nascent cluster of digital and creative content businesses, with 624 companies employing 1,929 people and supporting a total of 5,033 creative jobs (see Table 5, below).
Although the geography and method used by Nesta vary from those used in our research, we can see a clear correlation in terms of the relationship between number of firms, employees, total creative workforce and turnover. Our analysis (Table 6) suggests that the clustering effect of increased productivity continues to be demonstrated in the performance of:
	•	Businesses in Middlesbrough’s creative content sectors, with have average annual turnover of £370
	•	Their digital counterparts in Stockton, with average annual turnover of £402k. 
Performance of the digital tech supply chain in Redcar & Cleveland is boosted by the presence of two large (£1m+) tech consultancy firms. In addition, each borough shows evidence of one or two wards within which emerging specialisations across some or all creative supply chains (content, experiences, originals, services and digital) are key to development of ‘microclusters’ with potential for greater collaboration, productivity and growth. New investments – including those from the BBC, the relocation of civil service jobs to Darlington and the Railway Bicentennial – present the potential to diversify and grow markets and audiences for creative services and experiences.

Table 5  Nesta geography of creativity (2016) – extract
No. of creative businesses 
624
Creative businesses (% of total)
4.80%
Creative employment
1,929
Creative employment (% of total)
1.40%
Creative jobs
5,033
Creative jobs (% of total)
2%
Sales per worker (£k)
74.86
Average firm size
3.09
Creative GVA (£)
93,632
Creative GVA (% of total)
1.60%


Table 6  'Traffic light' rating of TVCA creative clusters
Average (mean) turnover (£000)
Darlington
Hartlepool
Middles-brough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton on Tees
All TVCA
Content
103
114
370
78
90
166
Experiences
51
70
73
46
88
67
Originals
71
58
71
101
203
99
Services
126
96
80
78
104
101
Digital
169
78
133
342
402
237
Total turnover per borough (£000)
61,731
25,827
91,047
27,914
144,370
350,889

Key:

200% + of TVCA average turnover per CCI organisation

101-200% of TVCA average turnover per CCI organisation

50% or less of TVCA average turnover per CCI organisation

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021

Other trends we can observe in this are:
	•	Middlesbrough is the only borough where content outperforms digital
	•	Hartlepool’s creative content sector significantly outperforms other creative sub-sectors in the borough
	•	Creative experience companies are significantly undersized across Tees Valley
‘At a glance’ – emerging microclusters in Tees Valley
Our data, drawn from multiple public sources – including Charities Commission, Companies House – has the potential for greater granularity and coverage than Nesta PEC microclusters data although clusters were identified through visual proximity alone rather than machine-learning and no follow up surveys were conducted with firms. Our analysis has been cross-checked against news articles, blogs and local government reports to strengthen any claims made. Nesta PEC data – the only comparable dataset to ours – also has limitations as it relies on web scraped data which can be unreliable due to uneven strength of web presence, self-response bias and potentially out of date information.
Figure 15  Emerging creative microclusters

Darlington
In the centre of Darlington sits a cultural quarter with pioneering children’s theatre company Theatre Hullabaloo, family-friendly arts & craft store Create and Paint and Cornerstone independent art centre standing in close proximity with cultural mainstays like Gallerina contemporary art gallery, Crown Street library and the council-run, heritage-rich venue the Darlington Hippodrome. These arts spaces exist within a small smattering of digital companies and content producers. Film and photography studios such as Camera A Photography, GASP Photography and DroneCam Solutions sit alongside content producers like BBC Radio Cleveland and the Northern Echo.

Hartlepool
The area around Church Street is an emerging microcluster, seemingly fed by the young and vibrant population of the nearby Northern School of Art. Exciting new ventures include Northern Studios - a new film production facility, Arcus Immersive - one of Northern England’s most successful animation companies, and BIS creative workspace in close proximity. BIS itself is home to many small creative enterprises like Tanglewood Games developers who have worked on some big-name video game titles, Natalie Michelle a popular fashion designer on Depop, and Mags and Ags – a star seller on Etsy having sold over13,000 handmade personalised gifts and keepsakes since they opened 5 years ago. With cultural hubs like Hartlepool Art Gallery, the Town Hall Theatre and The Studio bringing together music, arts and communities nearby, there appears to be real potential here.

Middlesbrough
Sitting at the epicentre of Middlesbrough’s centralised creative cluster is the Boho Zone. Animmersion, which specialises in animation, interactive displays, holograms, UX design, VR and AR recently made the Boho One building their home. They join other resident companies like Double Eleven and SockMonkey studios which typify Middlesbrough’s overall strengths in games and software development. The Boho Zone is a huge draw for companies across Tees Valley, as evidenced by the recent arrival of Wander Films, whose co-founder and creative director Chloë Clover, originally from Redcar, made 2021’s Forbes 30 Under 30 list for European Media and Marketing. 
Nearby, The Auxiliary  comprises gallery, ‘messy’ creative workspace – with aspirations to expand to more digital/office workspace in existing and neighbouring buildings.

Redcar & Cleveland
Palace Hub in Redcar is a sign of good things to come, with creative firms making their home here. Tenants here include Katnipp, a Kawaii Stationery Shop with over 60,000 sales through Etsy since 2015 and That Cake, a popular artisan bakery and pantry whose owner has featured on Channel 4 cookery shows. Tuned In! youth centre also demonstrates the future potential for a creative cluster in Coatham ward. Their young musicians recently performed at the Festival of Thrift in Kirkleatham which was attended by 50,000 people. Elsewhere, there are a fair few ‘experience’ companies based Saltburn-by-the-Sea including Saltburn Artists Projects which runs a gallery/studio complex and arts development programme, and Saltburn Folk Festival.

Stockton-on-Tees
The ARC arts centre is the cultural crown of Stockton-on-Tees but it has also been joined by the newly refurbished Grade II listed Stockton Globe run by commercial group ATG. There are also unique, characterful community hubs such as The Drake bookshop. North of Stockton, there’s also Billingham Forum Theatre and Billingham International Folklore Festival of World Dance is a big draw to the North.



1.4	PRODUCTIVITY
The overwhelming majority of CCI companies are below the threshold at which they need to produce full accounts as part of their annual return to Companies House. Therefore, we have augmented this evidence with Dun & Bradstreet estimates of turnover and data from Charities Commission returns to provide a proxy of productivity for CCI organisations by location and supply chain.
This method identified the annual turnover of CCI organisations across Tees Valley as £351 million for the most recent year for which accounts are available (which, depending on company reporting dates, will be a mixture of 2019 and 2020). This is a conservative estimate:
	•	There is no turnover data on approximately 600 of the 2,800 creative organisations identified in total.
	•	We have limited data on local-authority managed venues.
	•	We have no data on universities and other education institutions.
	•	We have excluded national companies with a branch in Tees Valley, as we do not have access to a breakdown of company earnings by location for these firms.
	•	There is no data on very young organisations (with less than one year’s trading).
	•	This figure does not include any estimate of freelance earnings.
Scale of creative organisations in Tees Valley
Analysis of these data shows that the majority of CCI organisations turn over less than £100k per annum, with the median turnover band between £50k and £100k. 
Figure 16  Share of total CCI turnover by turnover band

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021
However, the contribution that the micro, small and medium sized enterprises make to the Tees Valley economy becomes clear if we group the evidence within wider segments:

Table 7  Contribution of creative enterprises by turnover segment
Scale by turnover
Count
% of total count
Total turnover (£M)
% of total turnover
Micro (<£100k)
 1,631 
73%
65
17%
Small (£100-200k)
 324 
15%
45
12%
Medium (£200k - £500k)
 166 
7%
51
13%
Medium-large (£500k - £2m)
 80 
4%
73
19%
Large (£2m +)
 22 
1%
142
38%
Total
 2,223 
100%
376
100%

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021

Figure 18 represents the scale of the economic impact by supply chain:
Figure 17  Turnover of TVCA CCI organisations by supply chain

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021
We further segmented our findings by local authority area to identify any ‘hot spots’ within the creative economy:

 Figure 18  Count of TVCA CCIs by turnover band and place

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021

Stockton is home to 22 of the 46 CCI organisations in TVCA with turnover in excess of £1m; Hartlepool has only three organisations with turnover between £1-2m. We can see that Stockton and Middlesbrough bring up the TVCA average, to £142,000 per organization per annum; and that the performance of Redcar & Cleveland and, in particular, Hartlepool, falls well short of those other boroughs. 
Figure 19  Turnover of TVCA CCI organisations by location

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021

Although they remain in the same order when looked at in terms of scale, we can see a widening gap between the ‘top three’ boroughs, reflecting differences in productivity and sector focus across Tees Valley. 

Figure 20  Share of CCI turnover by location

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021

Drilling down into performance of organisations within each local authority shows us the different structure of sectors in each place and suggests the relative strengths across Tees Valley, with Stockton and Middlesbrough deriving a much larger proportion of total CCI turnover from larger companies.

Figure 21  Analysis of total CCI turnover by location and turnover band

Source: The Fifth Sector/MyCake 2021

But looked at across Tees Valley, the data show that each turnover band other than the sub-£20k segment delivers a significant share of total turnover – emphasising the need to support the whole cultural and creative ‘ecology’ of Tees Valley.
Creative spillovers
Oxford Economics (2021) estimates that,
“Accounting for their procurement expenditures… the total economic footprint of the [creative] industries in 2019 supported 3.5 million jobs and £178.0 billion in GVA. The results therefore indicate that for every 10 jobs that the creative industries directly support, a further seven are supported elsewhere in the economy as a result of supply chain multiplier effects. Similarly, for every £1 that the industries contribute to the UK directly, a further £0.5 is supported through supply chain effects.”
The evidence is not broken down to regional level, but we would estimate that lack of scale and diversity of the creative industries in Tees Valley would reduce those spillovers – although it highlights the greater potential uplift and multipliers to the whole economy arising from investment in creative industries.

Economic impact of arts, culture & heritage activity
The broad conclusions about the value of the cultural sector to the economy are well attested and now well known. Thus, investment in the sector has direct and indirect benefits to the economy.
Figure 22  Economic impacts of arts, culture & heritage activity


DCMS, Connected Growth: Manual for Places, p. 47

DCMS, Connected Growth: Manual for Places, p. 47

Our modelling shows that for every 1 FTE worker directly employed by the arts and culture industry a further 0.62 FTE jobs are supported through indirect effects. Furthermore, 0.84 FTE jobs are supported through induced impacts. This implies that for every 1 FTE worker directly employed, a total footprint of 2.46 FTE workers is supported in the wider economy.
Our modelling shows that for every 1 FTE worker directly employed by the arts and culture industry a further 0.62 FTE jobs are supported through indirect effects. Furthermore, 0.84 FTE jobs are supported through induced impacts. This implies that for every 1 FTE worker directly employed, a total footprint of 2.46 FTE workers is supported in the wider economy.
Across England, the heritage sector currently generates £13.1bn for the economy, higher than either the security, defence or the aerospace industries.
Across England, the heritage sector currently generates £13.1bn for the economy, higher than either the security, defence or the aerospace industries.
Source: Centre for Economics and Business Research, Contribution of the arts and culture industry to the UK economy: A Cebr report for Arts Council England, May 2020. p. 30.
Source: Centre for Economics and Business Research, Contribution of the arts and culture industry to the UK economy: A Cebr report for Arts Council England, May 2020. p. 30.
Creative exports
International export data for creative industries is split between creative goods and creative services; and none of it is disaggregated at NUTS2 level in a way which would help us to derive any accurate estimates for export activity from Tees Valley’s CCIs. 
Obviously export growth is a desirable outcome of any sector plan but, outside a few significant content producers and the value of ‘invisible exports’ in the form of visitor spend at festivals and events, what creative export mostly consists of is freelancers and micro-enterprises finding opportunities to work outside Tees Valley. 
What this presents is an opportunity to provide the skills and management development needed by those independent producers - an integral part of the sector - to allow them to scale up and create more jobs within the Combined Authority area whilst accessing markets outside Tees Valley. A much bigger opportunity lies in the market for digital exports. A newly published report on digital trade flows sets out, 
“The government’s vision … for the UK to be a global leader in digital trade.”
The report estimates the export value of intellectual property at £20.6 billion per annum, with the assumption that, 
“Intangible exports are likely to increase in value as global trade becomes more and more digitised.”
The contribution of the audiovisual sector is estimated at £2.7 billion per annum – and the report points out that the sector has, “cultural significance beyond its value in pounds and pence.”
Tees Valley can benefit from recommendations that the UK Government continue to promote and showcase the UK as, “a strong, competitive place to do digital business” – particularly if audiovisual activities in the region both scale up and are more actively promoted. There is specific opportunity, too, in the suggestion that UK government investment includes,
“Ensuring freeports, as new initiatives for enhancing trade and attracting world-leading innovative investments, feature digital as a central part of their plans.”

1.5	REGIONAL COMPETITIVENESS 
Cultural sector employment
Based on analysis of BRES data, Tees Valley displays the lowest level of cultural employment of any of the English Combined Authorities.
Figure 23  Comparison of cultural sector employment in Tees Valley with other Combined Authority areas

Source: The Fifth Sector analysis of BRES 2020

Its small scale is reflected in its relative lack of resilience in the face of Covid:
Table 8  Change in cultural sector employment 2019-2020
Rank
Change in culture sector employment 2019-20 (BRES 2020)
Count
Change 2019-20
1
West of England
7,900
9%
2
Cambridgeshire and Peterborough
3,875
-5%
3
North East
3,345
-10%
4
West Midlands
9,185
-15%
5
Liverpool City Region
5,385
-22%
6
Tees Valley
1,145
-24%
7
Greater Manchester
14,890
-29%
8
North of Tyne
3,395
-30%
9
West Yorkshire
6,800
-39%
10
Sheffield City Region
2,215
-53%

But the Covid effect only continues a trend of overall decline in cultural employment in Tees Valley steeper than in any other Combined Authority area since 2015:

Table 9  Change in cultural employment in Combined Authority areas 2015-20
Change in culture sector employment 2015-20 (BRES 2020)
Count
Change 2015-20
West of England
7,900
55%
Greater Manchester
14,890
16%
Cambridgeshire and Peterborough
3,875
14%
Liverpool City Region
5,385
4%
West Midlands
9,185
2%
West Yorkshire
6,800
-6%
North East
3,345
-15%
Sheffield City Region
2,215
-19%
North of Tyne
3,395
-22%
Tees Valley
1,145
-29%

Source: The Fifth Sector analysis of BRES 2020



Creative industries employment
Taking the standard DCMS definition of creative industries as a benchmark, Tees Valley again has the lowest level of employment of any English Combined Authority area.

Figure 24  Comparison of creative industries employment in Tees Valley with other Combined Authority areas

Source: The Fifth Sector analysis of BRES 2020

Regional impact of arts & culture
Cebr Analysis undertaken for Arts Council England highlighted the relative position of the different regions. While this evaluation has been overtaken by recent events and updated with our own research, it correlates with our own findings that the full potential benefit of arts, culture, creative industries and heritage for the North East and TVCA has not been realised.

Figure 25  Economic impacts of arts & culture by region



1.6	CONSULTATION
Interviews, workshops and round table discussions were conducted between July and October 2021 by The Fifth Sector with stakeholders to develop a framework for a vision building on existing assets and strengths of the Tees Valley. Over 100 individuals were engaged, including representatives of the following organisations:

NE Cultural Consortium
Dance in Middlesbrough
Creative England
Teesside University
Northern Accelerator (Durham University)
Digital City
Stockton ARC
SBC / SIRF
Ten Feet Tall/Basecamp
Stockton Borough Council
Tees Valley Arts
Tees Music Alliance
Festival of Thrift
Theatre Hullabaloo

The Auxiliary
Stellar Projects
Tracks Darlington
Kirkleatham Museum
ERS Limited
Tom Rolfe Productions
Animex
Roundtable discussions with local authority partners from Darlington, Hartlepool Middlesbrough, Redcar& Cleveland and Stockton-on-Tees were held in August 2021. A Young people’s forum drawn from members of Tees Valley Young Creatives, and separate round table with seven independent Creatives took place in September 2021.
Tees Valley reportedly does not come together in the way that a city might even though it has the same numbers as some cities. Small towns end up competing for the same pots of money. People in Tees Valley – and outside – thinking of the area not being an integral part of the North East, some argue, is damaging the way policymakers, funders, researchers and entrepreneurs make best use of assets and resources in that wider region.
Although there is a strong community in the arts and culture, this doesn’t necessarily connect out to other parts of the creative, digital and tourism economies. Tees Valley is perceived as being somewhat insular. Digital City provided some valuable brokerage but it is perceived by some as ‘coasting’. 
The lack of an overall, compelling vision for the local creative economy leaves people in an ‘uneasy’ competition with one another, rather than working to a common purpose. This includes some overlap of local HEIs knowledge transfer activities with what some smaller local commercial businesses feel they could themselves undertake.
There is strength in the diversity of the sectors which are present at scale in the region – including Advanced Manufacturing and Logistics alongside the creative industries.  Whilst there are pockets of innovation, opportunities to cross-pollinate for example from process heavy or digital sectors to creative – or from creative to manufacturing – are being missed. Encouraging emerging and established creative, cultural and digital leaders in local businesses to work across different sectors, in interdisciplinary projects would develop their ‘soft’, horizontal skills including commercial skills – and support the growth of their enterprises.
Findings: Rise of the Independents
Tees Valley has an emergent and growing independent sector spanning both culture (small independent arts organisations) and a burgeoning commercial creative sector. 
We found inspiration in the real strengths of independent organisations and artists drawn from protected characteristics who hold 'micro-operations' knowledge of culture. Grass roots organisations working on the ground with local people hold knowledge of intangible culture – those disparate and diverse voices need to be reflected in ‘formal’ culture and inclusive investment programmes. 
This was borne out by the round table with the independent sector and the 1-2-1 mentoring programme, run alongside the Framework development, with 19 mid-career professionals either freelance, micro-organisations or working within sector employed at venues (via local authorities).
What is evident is that there is significant ambition within Tees Valley clustered within the towns and occasionally across the region. Structural analysis of sector supply chains and employment reinforces the reported issues around fragmentation and disparity across and within the towns. But in addition to those barriers, ambition is tempered by the lack of ability to access support for the presentation and distribution of work that is viewed as ‘niche’ and outside the mainstream.
This equates niche with an inability to attract an audience. However, ‘niche’ can be in itself diverse and inclusive and as such can support audience development within and across communities (ethnic, LGBTQI etc) as well as attracting non-mainstream audiences into Tees Valley drawn to a unique and distinct offer that is not being served elsewhere.
The crossover potential for independents and distinctive forms of content in both services and consumption is not fully realised and needs further investment to scale up. This scaling up creates a ladder of business growth and career development. At present, there is little opportunity for people to stay in Tees Valley and so mid-career progression routes are not viable.
Early-stage creative enterprises – including pre-revenue - need support and investment (a mix of grants and loans) to build an ecosystem of more inclusive and diverse companies. However, their ‘growth’ may not take the same linear form as predicated by the outputs of most business support programmes. Growth may be lateral not vertical, so increasing the economic earning of freelancers rather than growth of employees; but equally does not preclude the need for company growth and employment.
Growth is therefore experienced across freelancers and micro-organisations and is highly collaborative. It anticipates a model that will be the future of 21st century workforce, disrupted by the impact of Covid-19 and remote working but also reflecting how the rise of AI in the workplace will require the sector to look more to intangible creative skills as a way to add value.
From our mentoring sessions with ‘mid-career’ artists and arts professionals, we learnt that this idea of business model has been under considered, as has the future of long-term planning and building networks both regionally and nationally.
Regional fees are below national averages, leading freelancers to seek opportunities outside Tees Valley in order to make their freelancer career less precarious, which then allows them to programme work within Tees Valley at below market rates.
This has led to independent exceptionalism rather than looking at the independent sector as an integral part of the supply chain with its own ambitions and ideas of growth.
The mentoring has without exception showed a desire and commitment to deliver high quality cultural activity that will lift Tees Valley into a different reputational arena. Much of the content might not be what is perceived as ‘mainstream’; but Tees Valley’s mix of boutique festivals, independent performing arts as well as commercial venues with the ability and appetite to look at audience development outside commercial theatre there is a real opportunity to augment and transform the cultural reputation of Tees Valley. 

1.7	POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH IN TEES VALLEY’S CREATIVE SECTORS
Table 10 SWOT - Tees Valley Creative Industries
STRENGTHS
WEAKNESSES
Assets – new Northern Film studios & new Northern School of Art building in Middlesbrough
Lack of large and medium-sized creative businesses to act as ‘anchors’ for growth
Some nationally significant and recognised festival, visual arts and theatre organisations
Lack of connectivity between emerging clusters and within creative sectors across Tees Valley
Diverse, ambitious and creatively excellent independent sectors in music, performing and visual arts
Relative under-investment from national arms- length bodies in arts & culture
New initiatives already underway to develop production talent (e.g., Producers Fast Track programme and Tees Valley Young Creatives)
Freelance talent is dispersed and not connected into professional networks
Commitment of TVCA and local authority partners
Lack of consistent and accurate careers advice and access to networks
Creative People & Places building on diversity and local lived experience
Lack of diversity in creative workforce and leadership
OPPORTUNITIES
THREATS 
BBC investment in the North East, with commitment to Tees Valley, can catalyse screen production sectors
Over-reliance on one single client (BBC) to transform employment and productivity 
Potential to develop more NPO applications in coming round
Young people and diverse communities do not identify themselves within current cultural offer
Develop sector support organisations to grow capacity and reach for targetted skills, business development and investment support within sectors with potential for growth
Continuing Covid-related disruption of live events and performances results in displacement of existing audiences 
Emerging microclusters in town centres – suggestion of increased agglomeration benefits across the ‘urban core’ of Middlesbrough and Stockton
‘Siloed’ approach to development of IP and audiences within individual businesses and creative sectors limits opportunities for collaborative R&D
Use creative industries as a platform to knowledge intensity of Tees Valley workforce
Failure to recognise the value of culture and creative industries in wider regeneration
Develop more diverse new entrants, producers and audiences
Leakage of skilled workforce and potential new entrants to areas of higher demand



1.7.1	SCREEN INDUSTRIES
Screen – Key findings
	•	To take full advantage of the BBC’s £25m commitment to the North East, Tees Valley needs to lead development of a production investment fund to support inward investment from inbound productions and the development of new IP by indigenous writers, producers and directors.
	•	This investment in capital and IP needs to be backed with a sustained programme of sector-specialist support for talent and skills, and for management and leadership development, led through Tees Valley Screen and engaging local higher and further education institutions and private sector partners in developing curriculum and resources.
	•	Education providers and employers need to convene around a shared process for inclusive recruitment if the sector is to play its full part in improving economic and social outcomes for all parts of Tees Valley.
	•	Local authorities need to collaborate with Tees Valley Screen to identify ways in which existing investment in regeneration can be leveraged to provide suitable accommodation for a greatly enlarged production services supply chain, including specialist lighting, staging and sound and also ancillary functions such as hotels, catering and logistics.
Executive Summary 
As identified by Tees Valley Screen, the Tees Valley and North East is still one of the smallest TV and films sectors in the UK: 
“It is significantly underdeveloped and has lacked investment support and infrastructure for over 7 years. As a result, less than 2% of film and TV produced in the UK is made in this region.”
In the context of the future trends for the screen industries Tees Valley can capitalise on opportunities by focussing on future content consumption forecasts beyond the TV screen as increasingly that amount of consumption varies hugely with younger people who have quickly adapted to content across a range of devices.
Ofcom figures from 2020 conclude that young people are engaging and consuming only a third of broadcast content via the TV sets (as opposed to almost 60% in the over 34s) They consume content over games consoles, via YouTube (on devices other than TV sets) or via subscription services (SVoD) such as Netflix Amazon Prime or Disney+. Indeed, these services saw the greatest growth during the recent pandemic.
For the Tees Valley, with only a handful of screen-based producers in the region, the backdrop of the future development of content production for businesses and individuals should be driven by the larger opportunity that the imminent BBC investment will bring. It needs to be future focussed, taking on board the continuing convergence and interconnectedness of rapid technological change and content production.
Based on our range of interviews and consultation with stakeholders, the sector is anticipating new opportunities for growth spearheaded by the incoming BBC investment. The burgeoning of content consumption across platforms also heralds an opportunity for Tees Valley to develop a future-focussed growth strategy to ensure take up of a full range of business development opportunities. 
Situational analysis – screen industries  
Overview of the industry 
The television industry has seen exponential changes over the past ten years and the disruption is likely to continue over the next ten years. Trends affecting the UK screen industries in the next 5-10 years include huge technological change such as VR/AR, Big Data and AI and the use of immersive tech in digital storytelling. 
In addition, the nature of production and content for ‘screens’ is growing exponentially. In film alone, choice has exploded with 33,500 films available at any one time via video-on-demand in the UK alone (source: BFI The Future of Film in the Wider World) 
One of the main drivers behind this explosion are the multitude of devices and screens now available to watch content – on mobile phones and across multi-platforms. Another driver is the wider variety of content available on “screens”– from short video clips (note the emergence of Tik Tok) to video games, to TV. 
The interconnectedness of technological change and content production has never been closer and is only set to increase. 
These technological advances, the continuing convergence between TV, games and emerging media and the changes in digital behaviour are transforming the screen sector.


Growth in film and television
Tees Valley Screen’s own assessment of sector growth (November 2019) reflects many of the key drivers, including the fact that the core UK film industry was worth £6.1 billion to the UK in 2018. Even during the pandemic, more than £1bn was invested in UK film by Hollywood studios producing blockbuster titles in 2020 (Source: BFI). Factors behind the continuing success of film and television production in the UK include:
	•	Storytelling: the UK's history of excellence in film, television, publishing, music, theatre, and heritage, provides rich source material for screen storytelling.
	•	Skilled and versatile workforce: the UK's highly skilled and versatile workforce in film and television is often cited as a draw by international studios that have invested in the UK. Investment in new skills and training, and in ensuring the pipeline of UK talent into the industry is well supplied and diverse is essential to maintaining this advantage and in opening opportunities to a more diverse and inclusive section of the population.
	•	Technological innovation: technological innovation is set to support continued recovery from the pandemic and future growth that will require thousands of screen professionals from entry level apprentices and trainees to heads of department.
	•	Unique locations and facilities: film and high-end television production generates local business activity and jobs across the UK, as productions take advantage locations that encompass gritty urban scenes, unique historical sites, and attention-grabbing natural backdrops.
	•	Expansion in studio space: there has been a massive expansion in studio space in the UK over the last few years, as production companies, investors and cities such as Belfast, Leeds and Liverpool have invested in state-of-the-art facilities to attract more inward investment and harness more of the production spend for each of those projects.
	•	Post-production and VFX: the UK’s visual effects industry often leads the way in innovation – the CGI which wowed audiences in Gravity, The Dark Knight Rises and the Harry Potter series was created by UK-based VFX houses.
Specific evidence of increasing demand for ‘out of London’ production comes from the 2021 census from Pact, the independent producers’ trade body:
	•	Nations & Regions spend on external commissions by UK public service broadcasters (PSBs) television production companies totalled £1.3 billion in 2020 – 56% of the total
	•	BBC investment in the North East maintains a trend of increasing the proportion of UK broadcasters’ commissioning spend outside London from 35% (2019) to 45% 2021). Channel 4 has a target of 50% and BBC has committed to 60% out-of-London production by 2028.
	•	Channel 5 has released figures which show its year-on-year regional spend with ‘indies’ increasing to 35.5% of its total UK origination budget in 2019 against 21.6% in 2018, exceeding its Ofcom target quota of 10%.
	•	International commissioners made up a further £224m - 25% of the total spend outside London.
At present the North East is statistically receiving 0% of that spend. However, that situation will be transformed by the announcement of a new BBC partnership which will see a minimum investment of £36.4 million in the North East over five years to 2026 - £25m from BBC and a matching commitment of £11.4m from the Combined Authorities, of which TVCA’s share is £4.7m.

Figure 26  Primary commissioning value of UK television productions by region of production 2015-2020

Source: Oliver & Ohlbaum (2021)
Trends analysis
Technological advances, the continuing convergence between TV, games and emerging media and the changes in digital behaviour are transforming the screen industries sector.
The television industry has seen exponential changes over the past ten years and the disruption is likely to continue over the next decade. Trends affecting the UK screen industries in the next five to ten years include huge technological change such as VR/AR, Big Data and AI and the use of immersive tech in digital storytelling. 
As well as changing in nature, the volume of production and content for ‘screens’ is growing exponentially. In film alone, choice has exploded with 33,500 films available at any one time via video-on-demand in the UK alone (source: BFI The Future of Film in the Wider World).
One of the main drivers behind this explosion are the multitude of devices and screens now available to watch content – on mobile phones and across multi-platforms. Another driver is the wider variety of content available on ‘screens’ – from short video clips (note the emergence of Tik Tok) to video games, to TV. 
The interconnectedness of technological change and content production is only set to increase. This will:
	•	Create more job opportunities (in roles whose titles haven’t yet been invented).
	•	Require new skills which combine these interconnected mindsets.
	•	Disrupt the current supply chain so that businesses from both creative and technological backgrounds will need to work much more closely together. 
Analysis of screen industries in Tees Valley 
As identified by Tees Valley Screen, the Tees Valley and North East is still one of the smallest TV and films sectors in the UK: 
“It is significantly underdeveloped and has lacked investment support and infrastructure for over seven years. As a result, less than 2% of film and TV produced in the UK is made in this region.” 
In light of the incoming BBC opportunity, not only as a potential major inward investment client but also as a vivid symbol of burgeoning potential, businesses and individuals in the Tees Valley look set to experience growth.
Since its inception in 2019, Tees Valley Screen has been working to identify and develop the number of indigenous SME’s engaged in screen industries production with the aim of developing, 
“Mature, competitive content producing companies with a commissionable track record.”
Tees Valley Screen’s Producers Fast Track programme, which has identified six companies as part of the PACT Growth Accelerator initiative is illustrative of this approach. The Fast Track companies all come from very different backgrounds – from more traditional video marketing to makers of social content, animators, and experimental artists. 
To get these companies to a ‘commissionable’ stage (and do have been working to do so a year before the BBC announcement) is commendable and aligned to the BBC’s Director General, Tim Davie, declared commitment to, “see more BBC content coming from the North East.”
BBC investment
The BBC’s declared plan is fourfold:
	•	To bring in established BBC series (new factual series + Ambulance) thereby boosting the 
	•	To spend more of their commissioning budget buying in content made in the North-East (with a new Daytime commissioner based in NE) 
	•	To develop talent and skills, initially in the areas of comedy with a series of masterclasses and events
	•	To maximise investment by partnering with local and combined authorities and Northern Film & Media 
There is now a great opportunity for Tees Valley to fully take advantage of this “momentous “moment (as described by NFM’s chair, Tom Gutteridge)
However, the region does not want to be, either now or in the future, subject to the production whims from one single client – the BBC. To do so will not fully capitalise on the expanse of the opportunity. It needs to grow its indigenous business base and workforce and, at the same time, develop an environment and infrastructure which encourages and embraces new businesses to come into the region. 
All this needs to be in the context of the future trends for the screen industries. Although the TV “screen” in the corner of our living room is still an important content provider, increasingly that amount of consumption varies hugely with younger people who have quickly adapted to content across a range of devices. 
Ofcom figures from 2020 conclude that young people are engaging and consuming only a third of broadcast content via the TV sets (as opposed to almost 60% in the over 34s) They consume content over games consoles, via YouTube (on devices other than TV sets) or via subscription services (SVoD) such as Netflix Amazon Prime or Disney+. Indeed, these services saw the greatest growth during the recent pandemic.

Figure 27  Viewing habits of individuals - Ofcom 2020


     Screen viewing 16-34 years old 				Screen viewing – all ages 
Source: Ofcom estimates of total audio-video viewing. Modelled from BARB, Comscore and TouchPoints data.

For the Tees Valley, with only a handful of screen-based producers in the region, the backdrop of the future development of content production for businesses and individuals should be driven by the larger opportunity that the imminent BBC investment will bring. It needs to be future focussed, taking on board the continuing convergence and interconnectedness of rapid technological change and content production. 
Overview of findings from consultation
	•	Whilst it is clear that the Tees Valley region has pockets of talent emerging from colleges and Universities, it is not clearly mapped and not necessarily networked into where the current or emerging job opportunities might be.
	•	Both new and emerging freelance talent across the sector is dispersed and isolated and the transition of talent from education into the workplace is unsupported with inadequate careers advice.
	•	There is a lack of skilled diverse talent to grow the screen sector economy, assets and infrastructure and therefore lack of diversity on content and the direct correlation with audiences.
	•	Recruitment across the screen sector (from education through to employment and self-employment) defaults to the same networks and entry routes; inhibiting a diversity of new entrants and progression. Diversity of recruitment will be a key driver for the BBC’s new commissions hopefully coming to the region. 
	•	This under-representation of the workforce is at all levels from entry to senior leaders. 
	•	There is a need to attract inward production and to invest in emerging indigenous screen-based/content production (cross-sector) to create growth and sustainability in the production sector. 
	•	To enable innovation and future-focused multi-platform working, there is a need to build both the creative and business skills of content producers ACROSS THE SECTORS and in both the commercial and not for profit sector.
	•	The true value of the screen-based economy exists in the development of and commercialisation of IP – new ideas with commercial viability across a number of platforms. Businesses need support to be able to fully take advantage of these new opportunities.
	•	Production support facilities are key to both attracting inward and indigenous production. Everything from a film-friendly service which makes filming and producing in the region easier to a properly resourced post-production facility (s) 

SWOT analysis – screen industries 
Table 11  SWOT - screen industries
STRENGTHS
WEAKNESSES
Assets – new Northern Studios & new Northern School of Art building in Middlesbrough
No established track record of delivery 
 
New network platform for emerging talent – Tees Valley Young Creatives
TVCA network is currently online with limited opportunity for 1-2-1 skills support  
New initiatives already underway to develop cross-sector production talent i.e.: Producers Fast Track programme 
Under-developed screen sector which is currently not in a position to take full advantage of new opportunities
 
Lack of consistent and accurate careers advice and access to networks 
 
Freelance talent is dispersed and not connected into professional networks
 
Lack of diversity in production workforce 
OPPORTUNITIES
THREATS 
BBC investment in the North East with commitment to Tees Valley 
Over-reliance on one single client 
Changing technological changes offering new opportunities for cross-sector collaboration and development of new IP 
BBC commissions go to already established TV productions areas external to Tees Valley ( i.e.; Newcastle) 
Growing markets for “content” on many platforms offering producers new markets 
Businesses have no access to development opportunities to enable them to grow multi-platform skills or talent
To build the reputation of the Northern Film Studios by attracting in an external post production company to establish a base at the Hartlepool studios 
No postproduction company is interested in setting up at the Northern Film Studios 
Build Tess Valley Young Creative Network 
Young people do not attend online sessions or connect with the network 
Attract new production businesses into the region by creating a favourable asset base of workforce and facilities
 
Younger audiences turning to content across range of screens offering new markets for producers 
 
To ensure freelance and crew are better networked, review and expand the NFM crew database and expand activity to include crew “meet-ups” 
Freelance crew to service new incoming production is not developed to its full potential 
Better relationships between education and industry allowing focus on “real” opportunities through placements etc 
Education does not deliver the skills that industry needs

Thematic priorities
	•	Inclusivity – to interrogate current screen recruitment practice and to analyse and benchmark industry inclusive recruitment practices 
	•	Supply chain development / capacity building – the real value for businesses is in commercialising or licensing their own IP 
	•	Talent and Skills Development – In the screen industries, the workforce is made up largely of 3 groups:
	•	Production – everything from finance, and accounting to programme managers, producers and incorporating runners, researchers, editors, content producers  
	•	Crew and tech (mainly freelance) – lighting, sound, camera, floor managers, grip, 
	•	Talent – mainly front of camera talent plus writers, producers and directors 
In order to capitalise on new investment, Tees Valley needs concentrate in the short to medium term on building up its crew and tech base. 
This will support both the servicing of incoming production and will also open up new entry routes into the industry for new and emerging talent. NFM’s previous interventions of capturing talent from university and providing training and/or skills development (skills bootcamps) that allows this talent to move from education into the real workplace via placements is a good model for this. But in order for it to work quickly, it needs resource (people) at both the development/training phase to design and implement these schemes and to be that bridge INTO industry – spotting and coordinating placement opportunities. These should be paid placements (minimum of 3 months) and where possible, businesses should be encouraged and supported to aggregate the opportunities allowing longer placements.
The current network for young local aspiring talent, the Tees Valley Young Creatives Network is an ideal base from which to build and develop skills; foster better careers advice and signpost opportunities.  In a short space of time, the network has built up a membership from across the creative industries allowing for opportunities across the sub-sectors (i.e.: a festival event coordinator has transferable skills into the live production environment). This network is the ideal way of capturing talent which has left college or university and has the potential to grow into both a valuable resource for talent spotting and development and also as the pivotal link between education and that next step into employment either through skills bootcamps or work placements. 
Assets – The Northern Studios
The new Northern Film and TV Studios at Hartlepool and the £14.5 Northern School of Arts college campus in heart of Middlesbrough will bring a significant uplift in the regions capabilities to cater for the development of talent and servicing of the predicted increase in screen production activity.  
The Northern Studios are described as, “the North East’s first dedicated production facility capable of housing large scale film and television productions”. The success of this commercial facility will depend in the short-term on its capabilities to properly cater for any inward production. The opportunity is to attract and then house an experienced and established post-production facility perhaps initially on a small-scale business and with remote hook-up to main centres in London and/or Manchester.
In addition, the studios, as part of the Northern School of Art, could provide placement opportunities for developing talent, particularly in craft, tech and post-production areas. This service would need to be staff and managed.

1.7.2	MUSIC
Music plays a critical role in engaging people in cultural activity and production. A recent survey commissioned by industry body UK Music revealed that:
	•	75% of the public are proud of the UK music industry and its heritage
	•	59% believe music improves the UK’s reputation overseas
	•	74% say music is important to their quality of life
	•	UK listens to 60 billion hours of music a year – the equivalent of 7 million years
Tees Valley contains all elements of the music supply chain, including both live and recorded music, labels, promoters, venues, recording and rehearsal spaces, production services such as staging, lighting and sound and the manufacture and retail of music equipment. In addition to its direct contribution, music contributes to the value of nearly every other creative sector and the same elements of the production supply chain also serve live events, festivals, television and film. The value of music tourism has not been calculated separately, but in 2019, the last full pre-Covid year for which there are figures, it added £60 million to the North East economy.

Figure 28  Value of music tourism to the North East, 2019

Source: UK Music 
Situational analysis
Music, performing and visual arts emerged from our research as the largest creative sub-sector, with some 400 registered businesses. The number of talented music activists – songwriters, performers, promoters, venues, event organisers etc. - across the Tees conurbation is undoubtedly high and there are occasional commercial successes. 
The UK’s commercial music industry is still very much London-centric. However, with the right set of contacts and resources, Tees Valley artists can make genuine inroads into the industry and achieve greater success – increasing local employability and creating positivity about the Tees Valley as a place to live and work.
Other evidence suggests that music is not fulfilling its full potential in Tees Valley. Comparison of music tourism figures for the North East (above) with those of the North West show that the larger region generated more than six times the number of music tourists (1.5 million vs 242,000), seven times the number of music tourism jobs (4,976 vs 662) and eight times the spend (£477 million vs £60 million). This highlights the opportunity for more and different kinds of live music events and festivals.
Original, popular music development is often left to market forces to generate successes; however, those market forces are often much stronger in large metropolitan areas such as London, Merseyside or Greater Manchester where a critical mass of people, facilities and expertise gravitates towards helping talent to emerge at relatively fast rates. However, analysis of the music venue infrastructure of the region shows that there is a complete escalator of music venues across the region, with local artists having the opportunity to develop their act and audience in venues from 60 to 2,000 capacity. Middlesbrough’s Riverside Stadium provides a setting for larger one-off events. 

Table 12  Music venues in Tees Valley
Primary Music Venue
Town
Capacity
Other Venue (e.g., Theatre or Arts Centre)
Town
Capacity
Forum Music Centre
Darlington
200
Darlington Hippodrome
Darlington
1000
The Studio
Hartlepool
200
Theatre Hullabaloo
Darlington
150
Base Camp
Middlesbrough
100 - 200
Borough Hall
Hartlepool
2000
Middlesbrough Town Hall
Middlesbrough
1190
Town Hall Theatre
Hartlepool
402
The Empire
Middlesbrough
1100
Gallery TS1
Middlesbrough
unknown
Westgarth Social Club
Middlesbrough
200
Middlesbrough Theatre
Middlesbrough
484
ARC - Stockton Arts Centre
Stockton-on-Tees
250
Pineapple Black
Middlesbrough
100+
Ku Bar
Stockton-on-Tees
300
The Auxiliary
Middlesbrough
350
NE Volume
Stockton-on-Tees
150
The Earthbeat Centre
Saltburn-by-the-Sea
private use only
The Georgian Theatre
Stockton-on-Tees
300
Saltburn Community Theatre
Saltburn-By-The-Sea
150
The Green Room
Stockton-on-Tees
60
Coatham Memorial Hall
Redcar
200



Princess Alexandra Auditorium
Yarm
800

Source: The Fifth Sector 2021

Brass band music forms an important part of the musical and cultural heritage of Tyne Tees, and still forms part of the concert repertoire in venues such as Middlesbrough Borough Hall. The recent decision of specialist brass instrument manufacturer Geneva to ‘homeshore’ manufacture of its instruments from the Czech Republic to a new production and showcasing facility in Stokesely demonstrates a further opportunity to identify brass band music as a regional specialism to a local, national and international audience.
Scale of the UK sector
Some key facts on the UK music sector for the last pre-pandemic year:
	•	The UK music industry contributed £5.8 billion (GVA) to the UK economy in 2019 – up 11% from £5.2 billion in 2018.
	•	Employment in the industry hit an all-time high of 197,168 in 2019 – an increase of 3% from 190,935 in 2018.
	•	The total export revenue of the music industry was £2.9 billion in 2019 – up 9% from £2.7 billion in 2018.
	•	In addition to the industry’s direct economic contribution, music tourism alone contributed £4.7 billion in terms of spending to the UK economy in 2019 – up 6% from £4.5 billion in 2018.
Impact of Covid
UK Music’s recently published This Is Music 2021 annual report reveals the devastating impact of Covid-19, which wiped out 69,000 jobs – one in three of the total workforce.
	•	Employment plunged by 35% from 197,000 in 2019 to 128,000 in 2020
	•	Music industry’s economic contribution (GVA) fell 46% from £5.8bn to £3.1bn in 2020
	•	Music exports dropped 23% from £2.9 billion in 2019 to £2.3 billion in 2020
The impact was felt right across the industry as studios and venues were forced to close, and musicians and crew were unable to work. In a sector where three-quarters are self-employed, many were not covered by Government support schemes.
On a more positive note, over 1 million people reported that they had taken up a musical instrument during lockdown.
Opportunities to grow the Tees Valley music sector
Music activity is fragmented and largely uncoordinated, with those involved rarely having the time or resources to explore greater networking or collaboration.
Support for music in the North East has tended to be delegated to Generator, based in Newcastle - which has resulted in a focus on artists based in and around Newcastle and Sunderland. Recent changes to Generator’s funding and business model mean it is also concentrating more on digital skills and business support, further diminishing its impact on Tees Valley-based musicians. PRS Foundation, the charitable arm of the UK body responsible for distributing music royalties, has identified the Tees Valley as a particular area of interest; and several discussions have taken place with its CEO as to how Tees Valley can best secure additional investment. There is now a real possibility that Tees Valley could become a third centre of PRSF focus as part of a “super-limited” initiative, alongside similar schemes in Liverpool and Leeds.
Interest from PRS Foundation, and the designation of the Tees Valley as an Arts Council place-based funding priority, has stimulated Tees Music Alliance to look to identify ways in which it could seek to justify National Portfolio Organisation status, including through its discussions with status of a PRS Talent Development Partner and to direct additional resource to musicians and music enterprises. To make the most of any additional investment, it is vital that infrastructure is mapped and encouraged to work in a more joined up approach in order to support careers in the music industry. Artistic support is the most obvious area for investment; but development of music infrastructure, through the support and exposure to wider national markets of locally based managers, promoters and record labels, is also important. 

Figure 29  PRS Foundation


1.7.3	VISUAL ARTS
Situational analysis
Many of the elements needed for a functioning visual arts ecosystem are already in place:
	•	National Portfolio Organisation: MIMA/Teesside University
	•	HE/FE infrastructure: Teesside Uni and Northern School of Art
	•	Festivals and events: Middlesbrough Art Weekender (and others)
	•	Venues / Workspace: The Auxiliary, Ten Feet Tall/Base Camp
	•	Independents: Pineapple Black, Café Etch and a host of diverse voices
	•	Networks: Tees Valley Young Creatives and those around venues and festivals
	•	Public sector: commitment of TVCA and local authorities
Appendix D provides 50 examples of artists’ studios, workspaces, galleries, museums and significant public art works in Tees Valley.
Consultation revealed the vibrancy and ambition of the independent sector, driven in many places by visual artists. 
Growth plans should avoid repeating mistakes of Birmingham, where success in securing NPO status for a raft of new NPOs in the 2010s was not backed by continuing development of independent sector.
Table 13  Visual arts: gaps and opportunities
Gaps

Opportunities

Coordination failures
Cluster development

	•	No single organisation working across the TV region
	•	Development of visual arts needs to take account of the whole ecology - NPOs, independents, venues and festivals and connect to heritage, public realm, regeneration, education, skills
	•	ACE Priority Place status gives access to £100k-£1m Place Partnership funding bid opportunities for sector development – including support for one or two more organisations to bid for NPO status
	•	Build on existing cluster assets and strengths, including: MIMA/Teesside Uni, NSA, Creative People & Places, commitment of TVCA and local authorities, vibrant independent sector, ecology of galleries, workspace, festivals cross the region
Workspace

Regeneration

Lack of (affordable) studio space presents a barrier to retention of artists in the region
Access to S106 and CIL monies as part of funding for new studios and workspace
Information asymmetries
Visitor economy
Local artists and independent arts organisation not accessing available funding and support
Establish programme and calendar to promote MIMA, festivals and year-round offer from commercial, public and community spaces together, increase repeat visits and cross-fertilisation of audiences
Diversity and inclusion
Heritage

	•	Local artists and independent arts organisation not accessing available funding and support
	•	Many people and communities are excluded (including self-exclusion through perception that visual arts ‘isn’t for them’ or does not offer a sustainable living)
	•	Little or no presence of people with protected characteristics in larger institutions reflected in lack of representation of diverse viewpoints in visual arts work and its promotion within Tees Valley and therefore limited engagement of diverse audiences within and out with Tees Valley – the most significant potential area for growth
Work with ACE, heritage bodies, local authorities, Contemporary Visual Arts Network, North East, VCS and education partners to commission work with communities around understanding, preserving and moving the heritage of Tees Valley into the future through medium of visual arts



Table 14  Visual arts: examples of type of support needed
Test/explore
Mobilise
Scale
Support for individual artists and independent arts orgs to develop their awareness of funding opportunities and bid-writing skills to develop more, and more innovative work
Capacity-build smaller art organisations- some for growth, some for future NPO, some for exit.
Strengthen NPOs and independent sector in parallel – maintain balanced ecology 
EDI – understanding and addressing socio-economic factors (inc. protected characteristics) which prevent people from diverse background from pursuing art
Inclusive recruitment to Tees Valley Young Creatives
Attract / procure major national events (e.g., British Art Show, Turner Prize etc) to embed connections and ‘ambassadors’, boost visitor economy (both local, regional and national visitors)
Representation – without representation of the diversity of Tees Valley in the offer, the audiences will not grow. Continue and develop mentor support, including artists drawn from outside Tees Valley
Develop inclusive audience development strategies across the visual arts (recognising that not everyone will like everything!)

Make national and international art form connections to strengthen the visual arts ecology (peer review, curator talks, artist talks, peer to peer mentoring, bursary scheme, artist in residence schemes, go and sees and portfolio review days)
Support recruitment and participation of visual artists within cross-sector peer-to-peer producer networks as main conduit for business development and CPD

Inclusive recruitment practices and artist selection (see Jerwood Arts, Unlimited etc)
Support some key independents to develop NPO bids and large-scale project grants

Explore potential for major national events (e.g., British Art Show, Turner Prize etc) and the business case in terms of sector development, sustainability, visitor economy, image and reputation
Work with ACE, heritage bodies, local authorities, Contemporary Visual Arts Network, North East, VCS and education partners to commission work with communities around understanding, preserving and moving the heritage of Tees Valley into the future through medium of visual arts


Visual arts benchmarks
West of England Visual Arts Alliance
https://www.spikeisland.org.uk/news/west-of-england-visual-arts-alliance/  
Replicable cluster/ consortium model (2021-2024) established to transform the future of visual arts in Bristol, Bath and Weston-super-Mare, nurturing the connectivity between artists and other players in the visual arts ecosystem, with a focus on providing critical opportunities and support to enable diverse (especially those who are underrepresented) local artists, curators and young people to develop their careers and achieve their potential, as well as supporting artist-led activity: including; CPD opportunities across three programmes, place-based mentoring and resources, research and development bursaries and fellowships, major new commissioning opportunities for regional based artists and subsidised studio provision
	•	NPO (Spike Island, co-leaders)
	•	Contemporary Visual Arts Network (ACE supported Visual Arts South West – co-leaders)
	•	Artists’ studios and workspace providers (Brunswick Club)
	•	Universities (University of the West of England and Bath Spa University School of Art)
	•	Local / mayoral authorities (North Somerset Council, Bristol City Council, Culture Weston)
	•	Young People’s Creative organisation (Creative Youth Network)

British Art Show (https://britishartshow9.co.uk/exhibition/)
Took place in Baltic 2005 
BAS9, a landmark touring exhibition that celebrates the vitality of recent art made in Britain, organised every five years by Hayward Gallery, taking place in Aberdeen (2021), Wolverhampton (2022), Manchester (2022) and Plymouth (2022) across multiple venues in each city, including local authority venues, independent venues and Universities.  Accompanied by a place-based visual arts ecology development programme: 
	•	Community Engagement 
An ambassadors’ scheme employing local artists and people from diverse economic and ethnic backgrounds, to develop talent, and embed the project across a range of communities; working as a network, providing interpretation and leading specific activities to engage diverse audiences, sharing knowledge within and between cities. Linking with HE (where appropriate) to support mentoring and CPD programmes.
	•	Creative Outreach
Commissioned artists’ projects, whose practice is process led and socially engaged. One BAS9 artist is working with specific communities and local artists in each location. Their work is developed through thematic links developed in direct response to the local context (mostly responding to local industry)  
These projects support the local ecology, embedding community working, artist to artist mentorship and new ways of distribution and engagement beyond gallery spaces. 
	•	Digital content
Generating digital content to increase access and participation, share knowledge, engage new and core audiences. Digital access to the exhibition, film programme, talks, performances and events is hosted on BAS9 website, cross-pollinated to partner’s digital platforms and social media activity. New digital artist content complements and enhances the exhibition and outreach programmes, connecting into education programmes and supporting creative practice for audiences and participants.
	•	Co-ordinator Programme
Employment of a network of City Coordinators, recruited locally from different economic and ethnic backgrounds. One National Co-ordinator is overseeing the project, managing communication and delivery across city outreach programmes, developing local talent, capturing evaluation and sharing learnings throughout the tour.  
	•	Capacity Development and Evaluation
Overarching and place specific, building upon the legacy of BAS8 supporting peer to peer learning, evaluation and knowledge sharing encouraging continual feedback with space for response and change. A legacy event at the end of the project.


1.7.4	PERFORMING ARTS
Situational analysis
Table 15 SWOT - performing arts
STRENGTHS
WEAKNESSES
Assets – Good mix of venues including a significant producing house, receiving house and young people’s theatre
Lack of demand and engagement from local audiences
Strong festivals and events brands 
Low visibility as a source of original content on the national stage
Innovation in young people’s theatre and street performance
Supply chain gaps and shortages – especially at creative producer level
 New network platform for emerging talent – Tees Valley Young Creatives
Lack of consistent and accurate careers advice and access to networks lets prospective talent leave the region
 
Freelance talent is dispersed and not connected into professional networks
 
Lack of diversity in workforce, leadership results in lack of demand from diverse audiences
OPPORTUNITIES
THREATS 
Build on innovations developed through the pandemic, including digital content and new forms of engagement
Reluctance of audiences to return to live performances post-Covid
Inclusive recruitment at all levels – leadership, producers, workforce and new entrants
Failure to diversity workforce results in increasing “leakage” of talent and audiences from Tees Valley
Develop cross-sector producers’ network

Bring mentors from outside Tees Valley to accelerate diversity and entry into new markets



1.7.5	LITERATURE AND LITERARY PUBLISHING
Creative & Cultural Skills’ most recent workforce analysis shows that the North East (which includes the Tees Valley) has the smallest creative sector in England with a workforce of 29,842 but that the largest sub-sector within that is “literature” (24%). This is below the national average of 31%.

Figure 30  Creative and Cultural Skills - workforce by English region


CCS’s sector definition for literature includes a large number of people employed in wholesale and retail of books, which does not match DCMS used elsewhere in this report. But our analysis shows very low numbers of businesses in literary publishing within Tees Valley.
Although there are  no clear indicators which suggest that literary publishing should be a priority for Tees Valley, there are clear opportunities for development of new writing as part of the development of the performing arts and screen sectors.
	•	EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
Context
This piece of work was set against a backdrop of social, economic, and civic inequality and activism.
Black Lives Matter catalysed awareness of structural economic and social inequalities and injustices across society, including the cultural and creative sector. This was compounded by the impact of Covid -19 across the board but with a disproportionate impact on black and Asian people, disabled people and those living with life limiting or underlying health conditions.
For Tees Valley that was overlaid with the multiple indices of deprivation and poor health outcomes, and so the need to centre equality and diversity and inclusion in our approach was a given and we proposed that increasing diversity and inclusion was a cross-cutting theme across all three frameworks and will be treated as such in our analysis.
This work, augmented by a robust social value programme to promote local skills and employment and support growth of responsible regional businesses, will help develop and set in action a plan for successful future change.
This thinking informed the delivery of the framework programme which was filtered through a lens of inclusion and diversity encompassing all the protected characteristics and to interrogate for bias.
What has been evident is that within Tees Valley Combined Authority there is a very strong and urgent desire to improve representation so that the creative, cultural and visitor sectors are reflective of the exciting and diverse region that they work in.  
There is also an understanding that to truly reflect the diversity of local, national and international audiences, visitors and consumers the workforce needs to look like the people it seeks to attract. A lack of skilled diverse talent to grow the cultural and creative economy and assets has a direct correlation on the impact of diversifying audiences
Methodology 
The research and engagement methods used were selected to provide a balanced and representative sample of views across producers and participants in culture, and to consciously extend the sample to include individuals and organisations who had been excluded from or marginalised in the conversation around culture to date.  
We sense-checked all our activity through an intersectional lens, and in doing so identified the shortfalls that exist as regards under-represented voices, especially within neighbourhoods. 
Our two EDI leads led stakeholder interviews with a focus on inclusion and diversity founder represented voices, are delivering the Social Value Mentoring programme, and collaborated with the three Framework leads so the research and engagement was all conducted through a lens of equality, diversity and inclusion. We conducted an email survey, sent to 88 emails of HE and FE institutions in and around Tees Valley, to which we had 15 responses, which included questions on equality, diversity and inclusion in student recruitment and outcomes.
The findings reflect on the three Frameworks though this lens as regards context and national picture, local ecology, supply and demand and underrepresentation. 
Frameworks 
	•	Creative Industries Sustainable Sector Growth plan: context, national picture, local ecology and supply and demand /representation and talent development
	•	Capital Leverage Investment Framework: equity and capacity development to access funds 
	•	Festivals & Events – context, national picture, local ecology and building capacity to include representation and talent
What do we mean by diversity?
The protected characteristics are age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex, and sexual orientation.
As regards TVCA and Inclusion we reflected on the broadest protected characteristics – race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, disability and socio-economic background and the intersectionality of socio-economic background and the other characteristics. So, for example zero-hour contracts and gender-based care responsibilities 
Our insights were framed by the roundtables, our interviews, and the lived experiences of our participants on the mentoring programme.
These found that there is:
	•	Significant underrepresentation within the creative and cultural sector 
	•	Disproportionate under-employment/self-employment across ethnicity, LGBTQI+ and disability
And that this intersects with socio-economic background, age and gender.
Skills provider survey
A very high percentage of respondents to our skills provider survey acknowledged that more could be done to improve EDI both in recruitment externally (80% saying it could be better) and internally (90% saying staff diversity should be increased.) As per requirements, providers acknowledged they monitor student intake at institutional level and that EDI was applied across all activity with some noting that it was also monitored at departmental and/or subject level There were no specific examples of good practice. 
“We monitor student intakes each year, with figures for BAME students, gender and students with disabilities.”
“We are an inclusive provider with a diversity in our student population that exceeds that of the local population”
Very high levels of expectation that more online learning will be developed (90% agreement) which may have been a result of the move to online during the pandemic. Following the national trend there is speculation from respondents (78%) that there will be more merging of institutions.
“We are working on greater connectivity between creative subjects”
“Creative skills evidently remain crucial to our students and to employers. We hope to see (and to contribute to) a more joined-up and well-articulated campaign that promotes and values these skills.”
Connectivity not only across departments but across regional institutions was mentioned by some as important particularly in light of funding changes, technological changes and more online learning. 
“It is super important that we are all smartly connected and share resources!”
“Creative skills evidently remain crucial to our students and to employers. We hope to see (and to contribute to) a more joined-up and well-articulated campaign that promotes and values these skills.”

Figure 31  Provider responses: EDI and future trends

Source: The Fifth Sector
Findings
In order to achieve a state of equality and parity it was clear from our feedback that there were equity actions to be implemented to achieve this.  These will be more granular and relative to each framework but fell naturally into broader categories:
Equity - talent
TVCA (and various partners) need to: 
	•	Enable and ensure that there is diversity throughout the economic talent supply chain
	•	Implement structures to support feeding in new talent through multiple access routes (inclusive entry routes and recruitment)
	•	Capacity builds mid-career and senior management through leadership development.
	•	Catalyse and increase the currently limited access to networks and stakeholders (both within TVCA and beyond)
	•	Create opportunities for investment into diverse practitioners and therefore diverse audiences
There is currently a bottleneck with mid-career professionals especially within LA venues as there are limited opportunities to progress resulting in talent drain. That bottleneck in turn impedes the development of viable career paths for new entrants and early career artists and creative and cultural professionals.
Equity- audiences/participants
In line with our interviews, and the express wishes of those with lived experiences, and aligned with new initiatives such as ACE’s Priority Places and their emphasis on inclusion and relevance in their Investment Principles, there is a clear need to move beyond instrumentalism when referencing communities and reframe cultural engagement and co-production, design and creation.
With disproportionate under-employment/self-employment across ethnicity, LGBTQI+ and disability; participants and interviewees with those protected characteristics felt a definite inequality.
TVCA needs to:
	•	Demonstrate comparable value for LGBTQI+ and disability cultural practice (content/originals and services).
	•	Ensure equitable platforms for underrepresented voices.
	•	Develop and cerate collaborative partnerships with underrepresented groups – MoUs for three years so as they grow new voices can come through.
	•	Develop diverse audiences and consumers beyond art form and protected characteristics silos.
	•	Support integrated spaces as well as protected spaces to increase participation for underrepresented groups and create a ladder of access.
Our findings point to demand for cultural events which address diversity in different ways – from neurodiversity to drag queens – and have the potential to attract other kinds of audiences from within and beyond Tees Valley.
Inclusion
With very few exceptions, current cultural provision and access to jobs & opportunities do not take account of or reflect any nuance diversity. This is a serious concern in terms of ‘levelling up’ and optimising life chances for people – including young people – across Tees Valley
A key issue for many was lack of lived experience by commissioners for any kind of consideration of diversity and socio- economic challenges ad this created significant barriers to cultural participation.
To address this TVCA can:
	•	Increase lived experience or awareness for commissioners.
	•	Invest in the recommendations and reputations of diverse led artists and arts organisations (there are some significant people in Tees Valley).
	•	Be mindful of the emotional labour of interviewees/consultees and the role of over burdening the education on boards and steering groups to those with lived experience.
	•	Collaborate with disabled/neurodiverse/D/deaf practitioners and disabled led organisations to look at inclusive access framework for culture (not just physical access but well-being, remote working, adjustments etc.) for disabled, D/deaf and neurodiverse people).
	•	Collaborate with LGBTQI+ practitioners and queer led organisations to look at inclusive access framework for LGBTQI+ artists, creatives and audiences 
	•	Collaborate with ethnically diverse practitioners and ethnic-led organisations to look at inclusive access framework for ethnically diverse artists, creatives and audiences 
Considerations also need to be balanced: cost of transport, access to kit, education and literacy equity, and equality of inclusive access. This could also look at access to work education for employers, multiple formats (easy read, video etc) for inclusive recruitment and an understanding of embedded cultural and social perceptions which lead t imposter syndrome in parallel with judgements on talent (education and experience) and what constitutes cultural value and taste.
These could be addressed through
	•	Employer training programmes on disability access to work.
	•	Employer training programmes and resources on inclusive recruitment.
	•	Leadership development (early and did career).
Whilst underrepresentation exists, however, the sector and the networks can feel exclusive and inhibiting.
There is a role here for TVCA to convene and hold space; to broker and facilitate.
In working in this way TVCA can address equality diversity and inclusion cohesively and collectively and in a way that is reflective of the people of Tees Valley as it is now and how it will be. Ensuring that EDI is an approach not just an outcome means it can flex and adapt as both local and national societal environments change.
Recommended actions:
Specific actions need to be framed within the lenses and contexts above in order to have lasting impact and drive economic, social and cultural growth that is inclusive, representative and diverse. A failure to interrogate commissioning bias and to collaborate with the under-represented groups above could result in inequity, further marginalisation and tokenism.
In collaboration with the priority groups above:
	•	Develop a collaborative and inclusive culture based on existing community activity, infrastructure and cross sector by:
	•	Develop a co-curated programme for ethnically diverse, LGBTQI+ and or disabled practitioners attached to mainstream festival activity.
	•	Ensure representation on new Culture Partnership Board.
	•	Develop talent development programme /CPD for diverse talent to access at each stage of their career including:
	•	Expand Tees Valley Young Creatives Network to support a greater diversity of participants drawn from across protected characteristics, diverse socio-economic backgrounds and both formal and informal education routes.
	•	Board development for diverse creative practitioners.
	•	Mentoring and leadership development for mid-career diverse professionals. (Lack of progression is creating a bottleneck).
	•	Undertake research into equity needs of diverse start-ups in creative/tech including a seed investment fund.
	•	Develop a talent development programme for diverse producers to capacity build new voices (not necessarily young entrants but also new entrants with transferable skills).
	•	Create Inclusive Ambassadors within culture and festivals to champion and increase access to the sector within underrepresented communities.
	•	Undertake widespread audience development research across Tees Valley to look at audience needs and gaps in provision.
	•	Develop a pool of expert advisors to develop knowledge in less mainstream cultural activity (live art, contemporary folk, visual arts etc) to draw in and expand diverse audiences and support diverse talent. The experts will be paid to advise on panels regarding funding applications and share their understanding of the artforms and markets internationally for the work.

	•	SKILLS
A review all relevant national, regional and local strategy documents and sector policies to identified three key themes and priorities to support TVCA’s objective of growing the creative industries and clusters whilst leveraging inward investment:
	•	Develop targeted new entrant training schemes with embedded work placements.
	•	Support the development of new professional training for businesses and individuals by pump priming new delivery.
	•	Develop a ‘compact’ between education providers and employers to secure better outcomes, with measurable targets for equality, diversity & inclusion in both recruitment and destinations of students with protected characteristics, including those from more disadvantaged socio-economic backgrounds.
Methodology
We conducted desk research to establish provision of accredited and non-accredited training in creative and digital disciplines, carried out a survey of HE & FE providers and interviewed providers, employers and TVCA’s skills team.
Creative skills pathways
The five pathways reflect the categorisation of supply chains used in sector analysis. They are:
	•	Pathway 1 - Creative Originals
	•	Pathway 2 - Creative Services
	•	Pathway 3 - Creative Experiences 
	•	Pathway 4 - Creative Content
	•	Pathway 5 - Digital Technology 
Full details of the 1,100 skills offers reviewed are provided in a separate, searchable Tableau workbook, which is searchable by:
	•	Creative pathway
	•	Location / venue
	•	Course type
	•	Age restrictions (if any)
	•	Qualification level
3.1	Skills - Executive Summary 
With new investment into the sector imminent, there is an opportunity to focus on the delivery of the higher levels skills needed for the creative sector. 
Tech and creative skills analysis for Tees Valley 
The Local Skills Report for the Tees Valley (March 2021) highlights the “challenging times” faced by the region but also acknowledges the evolving nature of many of the more established industries who have successfully evolved and repositioned themselves in the economy, alongside the emergence of some new growth sectors citing digital industries – very much aligned to the creative and tech sectors- as an emerging strength and noted that this sector was highly dependent on supply from the HE sector. 
The report states that employment in Digital, Creative, Culture and Leisure has risen since 2014 and there is a strong demand (relative to the national average) for web developers, IT managers and IT Trainer roles. Digital skills are in higher demand in Tees Valley than elsewhere: these include skills related to Tees Valley animation and games subsectors (e.g., character animation, character design).
As part of the evidence base developed for the Tees Valley Local Industrial Strategy, research was undertaken into the digital sector in Tees Valley, showing that the challenge of finding skilled people to fill digital jobs is a key barrier to growth, especially for experienced staff. This shortage of digital skills is very much in line with the national picture. (See below).
For a sector that relies heavily on higher level skills, graduate underemployment and retention in Tees Valley is an issue. Less than half of Tees Valley graduates find employment within the Tees Valley 15 months after graduating, and over a quarter were working in non-graduate roles.
The Teesside University College Partnership (TUCP) has a stated aim to align the delivery of its partners - Teesside University, Darlington College, Hartlepool College of Further Education and the Education Training Collective - to the needs of employers in the key sectors which includes digital. Their aim is to provide a “cohesive solution” to higher level skills delivery. 
Tech & creative skills analysis – national
The intersection between the digital world and the creative industries offers great potential but also significant challenges in developing skills for the sector. To be economically successful, the workforce needs to combine creative skills mixed with programming and technical skills as well as knowledge of STEM subjects. 
The rapidity of technological change impacts on the demand for skills and both Screenskills and Creative and Cultural Skills – the skills councils for the sectors - report significant skills shortages, particularly in technical and job-specific skills. 
For example, in design technical skills such as the use of CAD or other software, are essential to the ability to earn employment in the sector. 




Table 16  Top 10 key design skills, Top 10 gaps/shortages 
Top 10 Key skills
Respondents
Top 10 Gaps/Shortages
Respondents
Developing design ideas
86%
Using CAD software
34%
Understanding a brief
78%
Using graphic design software
21%
Generating concepts
73%
Designing for mass market
18%
Pricing and designing to a price point
70%
Hand carving, sculpting or model making
18%
Sketching & rendering by hand
62%
Analysing trends
15%
Hand carving, sculpting or model making
45%
Sketching & rendering by hand
14%
Using graphic design software
43%
Create technical drawings
14%
Create technical drawings
40%
Pricing and designing to a price point
11%
Analysing trends
38%
Generating concepts
7%
Using CAD software
32%
Developing design ideas
7%

Source: Creative and Cultural Skills, “Building a Creative Nation”

3.2	Needs assessment 
To undertake an understanding of the opportunities and barriers for skills requirements, it is important to understand some key themes impacting on skills for the sector. These key themes for skills in the Creative and Cultural sectors can be summarised as follows: 
	•	Advanced digital and fusion skills
The rise in multi-platforms is changing not only what content is produced but how it is produced. As creative technology rapidly advances, more and more creative workers will need “cross-over” or “fusion” skills – creative and technical. A growth in digital occupations both related to the technology sector and the wider creative industries is a key area of skills development over the next five years.
The Creative Industries Council in 2014 noted that workers needed:
“A fusion of creative, digital, STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, Maths) and business skills”. 
Research suggests we are seeing an increasing convergence of technology and creative skill needs within roles, and that those businesses that are able to successfully blend science with the arts tend to be more innovative and grow faster than those that focus on individual disciplines alone (Bakhshi & Windsor,2016). The first is a growing demand for those workers who offer composite skills, including creative skills, technological skills and entrepreneurial skills.
Alongside this, there is convergence of different parts of the creative industries, including a blurring of the film and TV sector but also including games and animation.
Ongoing advances in technology are turning certain jobs and traditional ways of working on their head through highly developed automation, robotics and sensor technology, 3D printing and ever more intelligent software systems.
Skills which previously were held in the tech sector are now required in the creative sectors. For example, there is also a growing need for screen industries to exploit big data to meet shifting customer preferences and improve consumer experiences. Creative businesses will therefore need data analysis skills – something unheard of five years ago. 
Specialist skills areas, which are more resilient to automation and outsourcing, are thought likely to be in demand in the future; for example, drone operators, VFX and special effects, riggers, animation, post-production, computer programming and big data-related roles. 
	•	Management & Leadership capabilities 
Insufficient management and leadership skills are already a widespread issue within the creative and cultural industries. Evidence from the ScreenSkills Annual Skills Assessment suggest that skill deficiencies in the wider market could also be impacting screen firms, where, for example, employers are being forced to recruit at lower skill levels and promote people earlier than they may otherwise have been. This has given rise to significant skills gaps, whereby workers are progressing into senior positions without the range of skills needed to meet new role requirements, such as creating and managing a budget or line management.
“Flexibility, negotiating skills and business skills were viewed as key requirements for both the current and future performance of workers in the screen industries.”
“Management and leadership in the creative industries has been an ongoing concern for a number of years in relation to the people that are driving growth in the sector. The proliferation of micro-businesses and sole traders has created an ecosystem in which a large part of the workforce is required to have the business and entrepreneurial ability to match creative vision.”
Making management and leadership training relevant to creative careers, while also bolstering entrepreneurship skills amongst young people will be vital to ensuring the future strength of the creative economy.
	•	Professional and business skills 
With an ongoing rise in self-employment and the industries increasing reliance on a freelance workforce, the need for professional and business skills is paramount as the sector emerges from the pandemic. Having the ability to diversify income streams, reach new markets, understand changing customer needs and undertake robust financial planning is crucial.
In addition, with the UK’s exit from the EU and opportunities in foreign markets, there is a growing need for the UK workforce to develop global skills in readiness. Given globalisation is a trend that the research, business and policy community have been discussing for decades, there is a well-developed (if dated) evidence base on the need for, and composition of, global skills. This research points to the importance of inter-cultural awareness and sensitivity, an ability to communicate and work with people from a range of different cultural backgrounds and from other countries, supported by strong language skills and local country knowledge to enhance global competitiveness (UCL/LSIS, 2008; British Council,2018).
“Globalisation is having a significant impact on the UK screen industries, changing where content is consumed and produced and creating a need to work across borders and with those from other cultures.”
	•	Role of the freelance 
Due to the project-based nature of the creative industries, around half the people working in the sector are self-employed. According to the annual ScreenSkills Assessment 2018-19, self-employment in TV is almost twice as high as it is in the wider UK economy. The sector relies heavily on this workforce and some sub-sectors could not function without this workforce. However, freelances face a ‘double whammy’ when it comes to skills training – not only must they pay for their own training, but they lose wages whilst attending the training. By nature, they are dispersed, often not well connected and, although they rely heavily on having up-to-date skills, they find it difficult to engage with formal training. Whilst various incentives have been suggested to support the training of freelances through the tax system, this is not yet policy. 
	•	Diversity 
The importance of developing and attracting talent from a broad range of backgrounds remains critical to the success of a flourishing creative sector. Research from the Creative Industries Policy & Evidence Centre shows that those from wealthier backgrounds are more than twice as likely to land a job in a creative occupation, with the issue further compounded when class is combined with gender, ethnicity, disability and skill levels. And there are concerns that the less advantaged may have found it harder to withstand the financial impact of the pandemic. 
“Drawing staff from a wider range of backgrounds helps companies understand and sell into a greater number of markets. It helps advertisers to land accounts internationally and broadcasters to develop audiences.”
	•	Role of higher education
With the need for a mix of technical and creative skills, it is not surprising that the creative economy has a qualification and skills structure far more geared towards higher level qualifications. 67% of the workforce is equipped with qualifications from higher education, while only 16% have qualifications at level 2 or below (low skills). 
The Tees Valley is well equipped to deliver these qualifications. Our research has shown that there are 228 courses across all five creative pathways at HE level and 223 at FE level. 
In a swiftly changing digital environment, the collaboration between creative business and education has never been more essential and universities and FE Colleges have a key role in delivering the higher-level skills that industry needs. With technical education reform imminent, there are opportunities to increase the numbers of higher-level apprenticeships for the sector. There are examples across the country of new education initiatives which embed industry into their delivery at all levels, from curriculum development to placements. The Tees Valley does have an education collaboration in the Teesside University College Partnership (TUCP) and there is an opportunity to encourage this network to have a clearer and more cohesive approach to the higher-level skills needed for the creative sector. 

Figure 32  Analysis of creative skills pathways in Tees Valley

Pathway 1
Originals
Pathway 2
Services
Pathway 3
Experiences
Pathway 4
Content
Pathway 5
Digital
CPD
7
6
4
16
21
HE
20
50
37
80
41
FE
30
32
52
47
57
T-Levels
*
*
*
*
1
Apprenticeships 
0
5
0
5
16

Key

Very good

Satisfactory

Not good

Poor
*
No provision

Our analysis shows that there are:
	•	54 CPD courses
	•	228 HE courses 
	•	223 FE courses 
	•	26 apprenticeships 

The conclusions we draw are:
	•	Pathway 1 (Creative Originals) could be developed better within HE and FE. This will exacerbate within HE due to funding changes
	•	Pathway 2 (Creative Services) is satisfactory with small numbers of apprenticeships 
	•	Pathway 3 (Creative Experiences) Satisfactory delivery with HE/FE but very little CPD development
	•	Pathway 4 (Creative Content) Well developed pathways throughout with some innovative apprenticeship delivery 
	•	Pathway 5 (Digital Technology) Well developed at all levels with excellent apprenticeship opportunities and new T-Levels coming on board

Figure 33  Analysis of creative skills pathways including Leeds and York


Pathway 1
Originals
Pathway 2
Services
Pathway 3
Experiences
Pathway 4
Content
Pathway 5
Digital
CPD
7+40
6+25
4+1
16+66
21
HE
20+16
50+40
37+124
80+92
41
FE
30+22
32+48
52+61
47+33
57+2
T-Levels
*
*
*
*
1+3
Apprenticeships 
0
5+5
0+2
5+4
16

Including Leeds and York provides evidence of:
	•	+132 CPD courses
	•	+ 272 HE courses 
	•	+ 176 FE courses 
	•	+ 11 apprenticeships 
Which offers:
	•	Significant improvement in delivery across all pathways in HE, FE and CPD.
	•	Better variety of apprenticeships, including Creative Venue Technician at Leeds City College (Pathway 3).
	•	Better development in Pathway 3.
Summary 
	•	HE and FE institutions are still dividing creative study areas into Arts & Design OR Digital Technologies. This may well be compounded with the funding changes in universities although it could also be an opportunity to embed more technical skills into arts and creative courses.  
	•	So far, no T-Levels (which are intended to include 45-60 days of work placements to increase the vocational element of learning) have been developed in Creative. In Digital, however, there are plenty of examples of the new Digital Production Design & Development T-Level with slightly different interpretations including media production to web development, app developer, cyber security, network engineering.
	•	Excellent HE and FE provision across the North and North East with 228 courses across all pathways at HE level and 223 at FE level. 
	•	Limited CPD provision at professional level – although there are opportunities for education to fill the gap in professional skills by developing and offering more professional short courses aimed at the market. 
	•	Many CPD offerings are mostly “Introduction to...” courses, although Middlesbrough College has good AVID and Pro-Tools courses for professionals. Teesside University has some good online professional courses (e.g., an Introduction to Journalism/Media Production) and Hartlepool College also has an expanding programme. 
	•	To align with investment in festivals, events, museums and institutions growth, there needs to be a focus on development within Pathway 3 (creative experiences). At graduate level, there is only one event management course at Teesside which also offers Production & Technical Arts at Levels 4 + 6 The list below outlines some of the courses available outside the Tees Valley:
	•	Art Museum and Gallery Studies at Newcastle Uni
	•	Education and Community and Community Music at York St John
	•	Event Management, Leeds Beckett
	•	Events Operations Leeds Beckett
	•	Sound Design Leeds Beckett
	•	Experiential Event Marketing, Leeds Beckett
	•	At MA level: 
	•	PG/ Cert Events Management, Leeds University 
	•	Arts Gallery and Museum Studies Leeds University 
	•	Arts Management and Heritage Studies Leeds University 
	•	Audiences Engagement and Participation, Leeds University 
It is understood that a new Masters in Creative Production is planned for Teesside University. 
	•	Formal learning routes into this pathway (apprenticeships) are non-existent and progression after HE is only supported by activity at ARC and higher-level MA courses. 
3.3	Screen industries skills 
In the screen industries, ScreenSkills have highlighted skills shortages in production management, editors, hair and make-up for film and TV and programmers and real-time engine coders for games and animation companies.
In High End TV (drama), Screenskills reports that 81% of survey participants describing skill shortages issue as “very serious” or “serious”.
Screenskills has also identified a worrying drop in employers willing to train staff with greater emphasis on remote learning. Some employers highlighted the benefits of short bursts of professional development provided by online offers, from focused e-learning modules to practitioner-led masterclasses. However, there is acknowledgment that no single delivery method can cover every circumstance; each has its own merits and a blended approach to training can sometimes be most effective.
The report evidenced that the pandemic might have exacerbated inequalities and that,
“Particular groups that were already suffering prior to Covid-19 have seen their situation worsen during the pandemic.”
Meanwhile, there is cause for concern as Covid-19 has disproportionately impacted under-represented groups – for example, Black, Asian and minority ethnic individuals seem to have been worst hit financially by Covid-19, due to a lack of financial resilience to weather a long period of joblessness (Film and TV Charity, 2020).
Industry priorities that have been identified from the ScreenSkills Assessment 2021 may be summarised as:
	•	Continue developing targeted interventions to address persistent shortages
	•	Build on collaborative solutions for tackling barriers to new entrant training
	•	Improve communication skills, at all levels and across all sectors
	•	Support the integration of HR skills and functions in screen businesses
	•	Continue to embed workforce diversity and inclusion in all priority actions
	•	Support employers and training providers in optimising blended working and learning
	•	Monitor emerging practices, including Covid-19 safety and virtual production
	•	Support screen businesses in securing improved telecoms infrastructure
	•	Support the efforts to mobilise environmentally sustainable practice

Figure 34  Trends affecting the UK screen industries in the next five to 10 years
 
Source: ScreenSkills Foresighting Analysis 2019 
In its most recent skills analysis of the screen industries (June 2021) ScreenSkills identified the huge negative impact of COVID on screen industries with the majority reporting no recruitment during 2020/21. However, employers in games, VFX, animation saw growth and higher demand for content. 
Screen Skills - opportunities
The Tees Valley is well resourced by its education sector to develop screen-based skills and talent with 131 different courses across the Creative Content pathway at HE and FE level (this increases to 251 courses if Yorkshire and Humber are included). 
To capitalise on the anticipated growth of the content sector, closer connections between universities and industry will foster a more prepared workforce aligned to real industry need. This could happen in a number of ways: 
	•	Placements - University staff responsible for finding placements should be more formally knitted into the current and forthcoming opportunities. For example, Teesside University’s BA Hons in Film and TV Production has a one-year out option for students to take a work placement in year 3. It might be interesting to examine the current % of students who have been able to find placements as a potential marker for yearly improvement. 
	•	Providing a more formal infrastructure for universities to collaborate and to have ongoing dialogue with industry by setting up a win-win arrangement whereby businesses have a much clearer understanding of current supply and universities have a clearer statement of need. A model for this currently exists in Yorkshire: Connected Campus. (See Frontrunner examples below).
	•	The current Tees Valley Education Partnership (TVCEP) has identified the development and retention of talent with the aim to, “increase awareness, uptake and routes for young people in to cultural and creative training and careers” could be a vehicle to move this forward but it will need re-positioning to be more focused on the screen sector. 
3.4	Analysis of Provider Survey 
A survey was sent to 88 direct emails in HE and FE institutions throughout the Tees Valley, plus Newcastle, Sunderland, Durham Universities. There were 15 replies.
Employer engagement 
All providers evidence that they engage with employers around a variety of areas – placements, curriculum development, setting of live briefs, visiting speakers etc. However, the regularity and formality of this engagement is sporadic with several institutions saying they do not have staff dedicated to engaging with employers so engagement can be via members of staff. 

Figure 35 Responses to provider survey - employer engagement


Source: The Fifth Sector

“When we engage with employers it is valuable. Our main stumbling blocks are a lack of time to do so (since we are bogged down in neoliberal admin), and the view among some (especially practitioner) colleagues that they already know what the sector needs without consultation - the reality is that those colleagues are out of touch.”
“Our aspiration is to have a member of staff dedicated to engaging with arts and creative employers, but we don't have this at present. 
“Despite our best efforts to engage with a number of external stakeholders to support developments and align academic theory to practical skills, we seldom get a response and this is frustrating based on the work we could do together in making the region great.”
“We are an Artsmark Gold institution but there are few arts employers in our locality and opportunities to engage with them are a rarity.”
“Working with employers within the creative industries is often very exciting. Creative practitioners often wish to give back to the learners who are embarking upon a creative journey. Often such employers will do things for free. The challenges and difficulties are their resources and their availability. Many creative professionals are SMEs without the time or space allowance to support various activities such as work placements. “
When asked about what assistance providers would like to better engage with employers, there were a range of ideas:
“Clear pathways to employers, and a clear sense of employer requirements and aspirations would be tremendously helpful. A 'gateway' to opportunities for our students, and for researchers, would be really fantastic.”
“Better interface with employers - perhaps some form of brokerage service to facilitate this”
“Continued regular discussion about skills needs and opportunities”
“Scholarship and Sponsorship opportunities from Industry”
“More proactive coordination from sector skills councils”
“Local authority capacity and support to identify educational partnerships which include HEIs.”
“There is no consistent or coherent skills needs assessment across the different sub-sectors. Often so-called needs assessments refer only to generic skills, not the specific technical or creative needs of industry”
“Financial support for the employers to be able to provide their time / resources.”

Recruitment 

Figure 36  Factors influencing creative course recruitment

Source: The Fifth Sector

Developing clear pathways is a major priority as is the popularity of courses to the recruitment pool. There is evidence that the often-high cost of equipment and software needed for creative courses makes it difficult for courses to be industry-relevant with 60% of respondents acknowledging difficulties. 
“Within constraints - anything that would cost money to provide to students (e.g., for software and equipment) is likely to be challenging.”
“There is a need for all courses to be cost effective in order to run or be developed, though we would prioritise the student experience wherever possible as a leading factor in decision-making too.  “

Course development
The biggest growth area is around Creative Content with 72% of respondents predicting growth in the area. There is less growth in Pathway 1 (Creative Originals). 
Figure 37  New creative skills course development

Source: The Fifth Sector
However, there were concerns about funding changes and the impact this will have on the recruitment to and development of arts and creative courses. 
“There is concern across arts schools UK wide about the reduction in arts funding.”
“Funding is linked to recruitment so this is the key driver.”
“Funding levels restrict the kinds of experiences we can provide for our students, particularly in terms of access to equipment and industry guest speakers.”
“It is a more difficult environment because of the government policy move to STEM subjects, the numbers have decreased and funding is reduced. Students are now more focused on employment not just making or doing the subject. They want to know their course is going to teach them what they need, as well as develop their creativity.”

Figure 38  Influence of funding levels on creative course development


Source: The Fifth Sector

Funding changes 
Under recently announced plans, spending for non-prioritised subjects - which include the arts, creative and media courses - will be cut from £36m to £19m, with the savings being redirected to other areas such as nursing and computing. This means a reduction by half to arts, creative and media courses, and indicating a greater focus on technical and further education. NE Cultural Consortium and Creative Industries Council lobbying for ‘STEM to be extended to ‘STEAM’.
Expected to lead to HEIs and FE either dropping fine arts or incorporating more creative technology-based practice in those courses.
The Russell Group of leading research universities has protested against the proposed cuts. Its submission to the Office for Students (OfS) argues that the affected courses will now run at a deficit of about £2,700 per student, including the income from tuition fees.
Main points of the Auger Review on post-18 education and funding 
	•	Russell Group say courses will run at £2700 deficit per student 
	•	HE Arts and creative courses now of “low value “
	•	Access to lifelong learning entitlement
	•	Value of Higher-Level apprenticeships

Further Education
	•	Skills and Post-16 Education Bill (from May 2021)
	•	Funding for employers to get involved in course development
	•	Lifelong learning loan (operational from 2025)
	•	Lifelong Skills Guarantee 
	•	Duty for Colleges to be responsive to local needs
	•	 More HE provision and more funding for Higher Level courses within FE:
	•	Opportunity for FE Colleges to develop HE centres, e.g., Middlesbrough College currently offer BAs in Digital Video Production and Games Design. Opportunity to expand further
	•	No evidence of FE provision within HE. 
	•	Microcredentials - Shift in funding to allow learners with existing qualifications to ‘go back’ a level (or 2) and add a ‘fourth year’ through microcredentials (‘top-up’ learning)
	•	Reflects urgings of creative employers over a number of years
	•	Some free online learning offered to attract users
	•	Progression to either microcredentials or full-time courses
T-Levels
T-levels must include a minimum of 45 days’ work experience Only one pathway approved - Digital: Digital Production, Design and Development Level 3 designed to lead to jobs in web development, software development, mobile app developer, programmer. A new T-level in Craft and Design (to cover jewellery, ceramics, furniture and textile making) is due for release in 2023.
In light of that, it is perhaps unsurprising that not a single employer expressed awareness of, nor knowledge about, what was involved
Placement requirements are likely to be seen as even more challenging to employers post-pandemic. 

3.5	Analysis of Employer Needs
We spoke to a range of employers and employer bodies across the sub-sectors, from VFX to animation and games to TV. 
Their emerging themes are summarised below: 
	•	Diversity of the sector – in its widest sense – is an opportunity for cross sectoral collaboration and innovation. With broadcasting quotas, diversity and inclusion will remain a priority for screen-based industries. Some employers identified they needed support around recruitment for diversity. There is evidence that employers will commit funding to support more diversity in the sector (games company Creative Assembly is supporting two scholarships at Teesside University for two students from disadvantaged backgrounds.)
	•	Need for mid-level and senior skills support – there was some resistance to MA’s being able to fill this gap. More “just-in-time” development needed. The new skills bootcamps at Teesside University were favourably cited as of benefit to both new entrants and employers. 
	•	Evidence that COVID supported the development of technical skills 
	•	Opportunity for broader range of professional support such as leadership and management training, peer-to-peer networks and mentoring which can work well for this sector. 
	•	There are several opportunities to develop, and some willing partners to help the sector embrace innovation through network support and collaborative engagement 
	•	Entrepreneurial skills and support – particularly post-Covid, there is an opportunity for young creatives to play a role in the wider regeneration agenda particularly in the use of empty or disused Council-owned sites. 
	•	There was a specific demand for basic business skills and ideas creation. Young entrants to the industries need more job-ready skills. 
	•	To cope with the ever-changing digital environment, there is an opportunity to upskill traditionalists (creative/strategy/production/planning roles) with new digital skills.  Equally helping specific digital specialists understand the wider need for ideas and insights and not just application.
	•	Universities have a key role to play and there needs to be more interaction between business and education to ensure curriculum is current and up to date with what industry needs. 
“We started up with money provided by council for cheap rent and a small grant from the Uni and now employ 18 people in Middlesbrough”.
“I feel the North-East has a real opportunity to support start-ups as part of post-Covid High Street regeneration. There’s an opportunity for arts-led regeneration as there are no real sustainable big employers. More support for the entrepreneurial spirit!”
“I feel young graduates are missing business opportunities – the ability to grow their own businesses after University. Local authorities need to consider support such as rates holidays, even free rents in premises that need uplifts. Starting up needs to be more attractive.”
“Are universities turning out too many people? The Tees Valley turns out 120 dance graduates every year for about 3 roles.”
“Diversity is a strength of our region. There are so many different sectors that can be tapped into. There are some fantastic pockets of innovation. But there doesn’t seem to be something pulling it together. Talking between sectors isn’t obvious and there is no space to innovate together.”
“Our strength is our human capital – we have lots of talent from a wide range of businesses.”
Recommendations
The sector needs to grow with a mix of the following:
	•	Supply chain development - increase the number of businesses by investing and supporting emerging indigenous content-making companies from across the creative sector (games, animation, full-service ad agencies etc).
	•	Supply chain development - investment and support in incoming content-making companies from across the creative sector (games, animation, full-service ad agencies etc).
	•	Supply chain development - attract incoming production by building up production support facilities focussed on key assets (The Northern Studios).
	•	Supply chain development - take a cross-sector approach which is focussed on future content making trends, developing both individuals and businesses to take advantage of new content platforms with a strong emphasis on the commercialisation of value of IP.
	•	Inclusivity/talent and skills - workforce diversity is critical and diversity is a key driver for future UK-based screen commissioning but with a lack of skilled diverse talent in the Tees Valley, there needs to be targeted interventions to help increase skills and attract talent for other sectors for diverse talent both in front of and behind the camera. 
	•	Talent and skills - development of the freelance and crew sectors needs to start from the ground up in order to quickly service the anticipated increase in both incoming and indigenous production. Working in tandem with the commercial sector, a scheme which combines on-the-job placements with training is paramount. The existing Tees Valley Young Creatives can act as the main recruitment base for such a scheme and as the potential home for workshops/training. 
	•	Talent and skills - the region lacks strong leadership and needs to grow its mid-to senior level leaders and managers to move the locally based production sector forward.
	•	Talent and skills - work towards closer education/industry collaboration by re-working and re-energising current models, extend the Connected Campus model in partnership with Screen Yorkshire or re-position the Tees Valley Education Partnership to be more screen-focussed. 

Frontrunner projects – examples and benchmarks 

Table 17  Skills examples and benchmarks
Area 
Findings 
Learning for Tees Valley 
New entrant diversity support 
Beyond Brontës was established by Screen Yorkshire in 2019 for young people (18-24) from diverse backgrounds. It particularly focuses on people of Black, Asian or minority ethnic backgrounds, but it also hopes to attract individuals who have disability status or identify as LGBTQ+, and those who may have been prevented from accessing training and work experience due to socio-economic challenges. The 6-month part-time course includes industry masterclasses, CV and interview workshops, detailed careers information 1-2-1 support, mentoring and placement opportunities Open to applicants from the Leeds City region, the scheme is funded by Leeds City Region Partnership and the City of Bradford Metropolitan Council.
Industry needs to be engaged from the start in designing, developing and supporting any programme.
Aligning talent development to industry demand
SCREEN YORKSHIRE CONNECTED CAMPUS
Connected Campus is a “ground-breaking initiative forging closer links between TV and Film professionals, production companies, broadcasters and the students trying to break into this competitive industry.” 
Its stated aim is to forge and develop strong working relationships between employers and educators of film and TV related courses.
Launched in 2018, Connected Campus now has 10 of the regions Universities as members – with only one, University of Sheffield, not a member. 
A sister version of the Connected Campus for FE institutions was launched in January 2021 and has four members.
The institutions pay £5000 per annum to be part of the Campus and in return get access to bootcamps, workshops and sessions with broadcasters including BBC, ITV and C4. There are special “broadcaster events” and one-off workshops on a range of subjects – hair and make-up etc. The group meet every 6 weeks. The initiatives are strongly backed by employers in the region who seek greater diversity in their workforce and links to the supply pipeline. 
The funding model of the networks is key to their success. With up to 14 members paying £5k per annum, this allows the Campuses to be properly project managed, key contacts engaged and momentum maintained. 

Better CPD delivery for businesses and freelances 
The Pipeline at the University of Salford is a new training initiative of short courses and masterclasses aimed at the TV, films and content creation sectors across the UK. The unit (based within the University’s School of Arts, Media and Technology) has recently won funding from Screenskills to deliver training for project coordinators and programme management assistants in TV. The ten-day online training will also include a paid placement https://www.screenskills.com/bookings/regional-step-up-to-production-management-programme-for-hetv/80534362-c154-4ec1-bdc8-9081796c134d/
Universities to be encouraged to see the value of engagement with the screen sector on a commercial basis.

Better engagement with Screenskills to co-develop future delivery. 
Better collaboration between industry and education 
University Academy 92 - UA 92 is a higher education institution based in Old Trafford In Manchester. It opened in September 2019 It works in partnership with industry to develop its curriculum and current partners include Microsoft, KPMG, Talk Talk and Lancashire Cricket Club. It offers degrees accredited by Lancaster University including Media and Digital degrees. Described as a “game changing” HE experience in The Uni Guide, it forges education learning with personal development skills including resilience, leadership, health and well-being. It offers learning in four blocks and the year finishes in April to enable students to carry out long work placements and its class schedule is deigned to mirror the working week. It offers financial support to disadvantaged students including a £5k package which includes a free laptop and lunches. 
UA92 is a disruptor in the HE family. 

	•	
	•	BENCHMARKS AND COMPARATORS
4.1	Public Funding of Non-profit Culture
	•	Total ACE investment across three key funding streams for TVCA in 2019-20 was £2,991,895. If levelled up to the all-England average using a per capita spend of £8.49 this would become £5,888,078 – an annual increase of £2,896,183. This would almost double monies received from ACE into TVCA
	•	NHLF funding into TVCA averaged £754,250 across the two years of 2017-18 and 2018-19. The England average is £2.84 per capita. If levelled up this would increase the TVCA funding to £1,968,458 – an annual increase of £1,214,208. More than double the current level of funding. 
	•	Together, these represent an annual increase of £4.1m.
4.2	Comparator cities and regions
The vignettes below highlight successful examples of culture and creative industries-led regeneration in other cities and regions. We have selected these based on three factors:
	•	Sector specialisms – screen industries, festivals & events and music
	•	Spatial relevance (the UK benchmarks are all coastal regions)
	•	Evidence of economic development from a low base
Belfast – the role of Screen Northern Ireland
The development of Belfast into a major UK production hub highlights the long-term investment and focus needed to secure success. Screen Northern Ireland began to invest in indigenous companies as long ago as 2004 and has overseen the development of a whole new studios and production services infrastructure centred on Belfast.
Although best known for Game of Thrones, which generated an estimated spend of £251 million in the Northern Ireland economy over an eight-year period in return for an investment of £19.4 million by the screen agency, the overall rates of return are impressive across Northern Ireland Screen’s portfolio of investment, development and education support.
Dundee – jam, jute, journalism and joysticks
Dundee has seen cultural regeneration as a result of successful strategies, the latest being the Dundee Creative Industries Strategy 2017-2021 https://dundeecreates.creativedundee.com/.  Its academic sector also helped engage both attention and new investment in creativity through its  involvement in initiatives such as Design in Action “…a £5m Knowledge Exchange (KE) Hub for the Creative Economy, funded in 2012 by the Arts and Humanities Research Council to demonstrate design as a key strategy for economic growth and innovation within industry.” https://www.dundee.ac.uk/projects/design-action
Credit for much of the creative renaissance of Dundee can be laid at the door of one man – David Jones, founder of DMA Games (which became Rockstar Games) and creator of, amongst others, Lemmings and Grand Theft Auto. A graduate of Abertay University, he repaid his alma mater by working with the university on graduate placements and curriculum development, leading to Abertay being named as a National Centre of Excellence in computer games in 2009. 
Importance and added value of collaborative research networks, as a complement to individual company R&D, is reflected in Dundee and Abertay universities’ collaboration to highlight their combined strengths in arts, design and technology, leading (indirectly) to the award of AHRC funding for a Creative Industries Cluster in 2019. Collaboration between industry and academia is a key theme within the city’s cultural strategy; and the focus on design as a way to “enrich lives through design” is a pillar of the work of V&A Dundee, the first dedicated design museum in Scotland and the only other V&A museum anywhere in the world outside London.
The interplay between design, economic success, positive social outcomes (reflected in V&A Dundee’s extensive education and outreach programmes) and forging a new creative identity for Scotland is a mix that we feel can be reformulated with distinctive ingredients in Tees Valley.
Laval – the superpower of specialisation
Laval is a rural town in the Loire, with a population of 50k. It is 300km WSW of Paris, 70 mins by train and 2 hours from Charles de Gaulle airport. It has some notable cultural heritage but is in a primarily agricultural district.
In 1999, the Mayor of Laval put his entire FranceTech budget into the development of Laval Virtual Center - a hub for VR/AR – and an annual conference
By 2021, the outcomes of this decision to ‘reset’ Laval’s economy were clear:
	•	Twenty-first iteration of annual conference (Laval Global) attended in real life and virtually by thousands of industry professionals, investors and students around the world
	•	65 VR/AR companies supporting 2,000 highly skilled jobs
	•	A skills hub (Institut Arts et Metiers de Laval) offers dedicated immersive content and tech courses for 1,000 students and influences creative and tech skills offer across the Loire 
	•	Laval identified as global hub for XR
Potential lessons for Tees Valley:
	•	The focus, international reputation and scale of Laval’s immersive content sector shows what might be achieved by strategic alignment of Tees Valley’s computer games cluster and applications of VR with other priority industry sectors as well as representing a rejuvenated screen cluster.
	•	The City of Laval has recognised the need to create new and dedicated studio and workspace – La Licorne – to help address costs and shortages of accommodation for early-stage businesses within a heritage environment. Tees Valley presents opportunities for more clustering to take advantage of available, cheap space in town centres.
	•	Laval has determinedly built its global reputation through outreach, exemplified by its annual conference and Laval Virtual’s three month ‘road trip’ around other European VR/AR hubs.
	•	Laval is a historic city of arts and culture, with a distinctive heritage environment that supports a strong economy of day visitors – the combination of arts and industrial heritage and cutting-edge tech could project a distinctive image to boost Tees Valley’s appeal to both the targets identified in Blue Sail’s report and a younger, more tech savvy crowd.
Liverpool – the world in one region
Liverpool offers strong socio-economic parallels to Tees Valley as an area with a strong maritime and industrial heritage which has suffered de-industrialisation and recession as a result of a shift in international market trends. Liverpool’s recession, triggered in part by the post-war shift in focus of international trade from Atlantic to European routes, arguably preceded that of Tees Valley; and its subsequent ability to regenerate itself economically and establish a strong national and international visitor economy through investment in culture serves as an exemplar of the benefits of continued investment in creative talent, skills and infrastructure.
Liverpool has brought investment to three areas of opportunity shared by Tees Valley: festivals and events, music and film and television. The outcomes have been transformational in both economic and reputational terms: the city region’s visitor economy was valued at £4.9 billion (GVA), attracting 5.5 million staying visitors and generating 55,000 jobs in 2019, and Trip Advisor named Liverpool as one of the ‘top three’ destinations for travellers, alongside London and Edinburgh. Much of the growth in the visitor economy was stimulated by Liverpool’s success in gaining European Capital of Culture status in 2009, and although this catalysed both investment and interest in the city, its greatest success is arguably that this marked only a stage in the development of the visitor economy, and not the peak.
Arts Council England investment into the non-profit culture sector in the Liverpool City Region has been running at approximately £5-6 per capita per annum (excluding an uplift in 2020/21 due to one-off COVID funding). TVCA in comparison receives £3-4 on the same basis.
Part of the attraction of Liverpool for visitors is its musical heritage, in particular the legacy of The Beatles. Beatles-related music tourism is worth an estimated £100 million per annum (more than the total value of music tourism in the whole of the North East). Liverpool has exploited that status, and the combination of its status as a crucible of new artists and new music over subsequent decades and as the home of one of the UK’s most significant orchestras outside London, to obtain recognition as a UNESCO World City of Music. The city region in turn leveraged that status in development (in 2019) of a Liverpool City Region Music Board and Liverpool Music Office, securing a £2 million investment in music development in the process, some of which was used to provide critical support for the continuing development of artists throughout the Covid-19 pandemic.
On the demise of the Regional Screen Agencies in 2011, Liverpool was one of the first cities to instigate its own Film Office, providing support and investment for indigenous and incoming film and television production and development funding for local writers and producers. That support, including a ‘concierge’ service which provides a single point of contact for all necessary licences and permits as well as the opportunity to access finance, has helped grow demand for production in Liverpool which has in turn secured investment in new sound stages, to be followed by an £18 million development of a permanent studio facility to be operated by Twickenham Studios. The Combined Authority’s £2 million investment in a Production Fund for film and television has to date realised a £12 million return in the form of production spend and job creation, even before recoupment of the initial project funding.
Nantes – supply chain supernova
The way in which a decision by an influential mayor transformed the economic performance and cultural status of his home city is also key to the story of Royal de Luxe. In 1989, the Mayor of Nantes, Jean-Marc Ayrault (who went on to serve as France's prime minister) offered the company (then based in Provence) generous funding, a cargo ship and the use of a disused warehouse on the banks of the River Loire to lure it to his city. Over the course of three decades, the city’s willingness to give Royal de Luxe license to operate grand spectacles, even when those disrupted day-to-day living, has transformed the image of Nantes as a cultural city and extended into a much wider supply chain opportunity for a whole cluster of creative and production services businesses.
Capital input into regeneration areas has seen a flourishing of Arts and Culture in other northern towns, rooted in their heritage and industrial past. Of particular interest are Blackburn and Darlington.
Blackburn
Blackburn is Open was part of a 12-point plan, which laid out ways in which the regeneration of the town centre could be approached. The appointment of Blackburn-born Wayne Hemingway provided a nationally-recognised figurehead for the town’s ambition, as much as a design lead for the process – both elements are complementary. The focus on events and projects in engaging both residents and the business community, and attracting a wider audience, emphasises the value of visible activity over publication of strategies. Projects arising from this continue to strengthen Blackburn’s identity as a cultural and creative place. 
“Blackburn is Open as a placemaking initiative has exceeded expectations. Its social and economic impact is continuing to be measured and the legacy is significant. Artists, designers, makers and start-ups continue to influence change and programming in the town. The Making Rooms, the Bureau, the Museum and the Festival of Making continue to strengthen Blackburn’s identity as a place to make and discover new talent. The old Cotton Exchange continues to programme temporary, site-specific artistic responses to the heritage of the town and the building, whilst new bars and restaurants are opening, creating a buzz throughout the daytime and evening.” https://www.hemingwaydesign.co.uk/blog/blackburn-open-blog/
Darlington
Darlington’s regeneration centred on developing its theatre audience. Creative Darlington’s vision is to make the town “… a place where art happens, where the arts matter and where the arts and creativity are central to Darlington’s future identity and economic success.” https://creativedarlington.org.uk/
That audience has been imaginatively, inclusively and dynamically expanded during the Covid pandemic by the  community-focused approach of Theatre Hullabaloo, which turned to  ways of bringing social benefit to the families of young children when they were unable to stage performances. 
The economic ‘draw’ of a strong cultural offer is emphasised in the successful campaign to attract inward investment from HM Government, which is relocating hundreds of relatively highly-paid civil service jobs to the town. This will contribute to increasing the knowledge intensity of the Tees Valley workforce at the same time as increasing demand for cultural experiences, creative services , crafts, designer fashion and independent retail in the town.

	•	CAPITAL INVESTMENT LEVERAGE FRAMEWORK
5.1	Cultural assets of Tees Valley
The map below shows the location of cultural assets including venues, museums, galleries, libraries, major companies, creative workspace and natural heritage assets. The full detail behind the map is provided in an accompanying Tableau workbook.
Figure 39  Tees Valley cultural assets map


5.2 Creative clusters and microclusters in Tees Valley
The analysis of microclusters (see also Section 1.3 above) is critical to the understanding of growth potential across Tees Valley:
“Looking at smaller levels of agglomeration can be a potentially important way to complement established cluster maps in understanding the geography of creativity.” 
Microclusters identify – especially in areas without urban levels of concentration of creative assets and enterprises – ‘emerging’ creative clusters of potential economic and social significance. In addition to public venues and spaces, the workspaces from which non-public facing enterprises operate are a critical part of over the physical infrastructure of Tees Valley’s creative economy. 
Figure 40  Comparison of clustering in Tees Valley, Greater Brighton and Greater Manchester

Source: Creative Industries Policy & Evidence Centre, ibid
There is a lot of variation in how we measure and define ‘creative clusters’ but identifying the areas where creative industries businesses are geographically concentrated provides a foundational indicator of where there’s a high density of creative firms in the same space. Taking influence from Nesta’s report on Mapping the UK's Creative Clusters and Microclusters, we can appreciate where there are density-based hotspots across local authorities in the TVCA and begin mapping microclusters in the Tees Valley region. 
With TVCA’s creative assets measuring in their hundreds and with potential microclusters in every borough, TVCA is comparable to the pattern of “creative conurbation” clustering that the Nesta PEC found in Warrington and Wigan, Milton Keynes or Stevenage and Welwyn Garden City. 
Like the Nesta report, these findings have drawbacks as they rely on web scraped data which can be unreliable due to uneven strength of web presence, self-response bias and potentially out of date information. Our research has other limitations when compared to Nesta: clusters were identified through visual proximity alone rather than using machine-learning algorithms and no follow up surveys were conducted with firms. That being said, observable results were cross-checked against news articles, blogs and local government reports to strengthen any claims made.

Table 18  Clustering within local authority areas
Local authority
Dominant supply chain category
Dominant SIC groups
Observable clusters
Cold spots
Darlington
Digital, Services, Content
Digital tech (20.6%), Film, television, video, radio and photography (15.7%), Music, performing and visual arts (15.3%), Games & software development (13.8%)
The wards with the highest overall concentration of enterprises are Park East and Park West with 170; more than a third of all enterprises to be found in all of Darlington. This is also where a generous portion of Darlington’s cultural assets can be found such as Darlington Civic Theatre in the north and South Park in the south. The best represented supply chain grouping in these wards are the 38 content producers in Park East, the second highest ranking across the whole of TVCA. There are some high revenue companies but many are smaller publishers, sound, video and photography studios in this area, demonstrating the high proliferation of this SIC group.

The majority of enterprises and assets are focussed in or near Darlington town centre. There are few outliers in the rest of the borough.
Hartlepool
None
Music, performing and visual arts (26.5%)
The majority of enterprises and cultural assets in Hartlepool are positioned on or near to the coast with Burn Valley claiming nearly a third of all enterprises in the entire local authority. It should be noted however that there are particular concentrations of assets along the borderline of Headland and Harbour ward with some spill over occurring here. As with all other local authorities in TVCA, the majority of enterprises in Hartlepool sit in the £20-50k revenue band. However, Hartlepool appears to struggle to attract higher revenue companies, in fact they are the only local authority not to have any enterprise with more than £2,000,000 revenue.
Assets are concentrated in Hartlepool centre but with enterprises reasonably distributed north and south of here, a better spread of infrastructure could foster more micro-clusters in cold spots away from the town centre.
Middlesbrough
Digital, Content
Games & software development (20.6%), Music, Performing and Visual Arts (17.5%), Digital Tech (16.2%), Film, Television, Video, Radio and Photography (15.4%)
Middlesbrough is home to a large creative cluster. Central ward boasts a whopping 46.9% of all the enterprises in Middlesbrough. It is the highest saturated ward across the entire TVCA, with far more enterprises and cultural assets than any other local authority ward. What’s more, it has a rich mix of different organisations with digital and content producers ranking highest – with Film & television, games and software developers the predominant SIC groups in this ward. 
Central ward is a behemoth in TVCA but the rest of Middlesbrough appears to have an even, if slightly below average spread of activity across other areas. There aren’t any standout cold spots but it could be argued that Middlesbrough’s creative sector is heavily reliant on Central ward and, without it, this local authority wouldn’t perform as well as others.
Redcar & Cleveland
None.
No outlying grouping
With the least number of enterprises of any local authority in TVCA, what’s notable in Redcar & Cleveland is that no single ward really stands out that much over others. There are few clusters but Coatham ward has around 15% of all enterprises and a good helping of cultural assets, particularly on the western side of Redcar town centre. Kirkleatham Walled Garden, museum and owl centre are a short drive away. Further afield, there’s also a possible micro-cluster in Saltburn-by-the-sea, spread over Saltburn and St Germain’s wards. 
There are a significant number of cold spots away from Redcar and Saltburn-by-the-sea. Data in this local authority is sparser than any other. 
Stockton-on-Tees
Digital, Services, Content.
Music, Performing and Visual Arts (19%), Digital tech (17.3%), Games & Software Development (15.3%), Film, television, video, radio and photography (12.1%)
What’s interesting about Stockton-on-Tees is that no single ward holds an absolute monopoly on the distribution of enterprises and assets in this region. Instead, businesses appear to be distributed fairly evenly from north to south. These are mostly smaller enterprises that don’t appear to be centred around anywhere, though the central Stockton area seems to be growing into a focal point for the creative sector.
There are cold spots that flank either side in the less populated areas heading toward Teesmouth to the East or the rural west. 

Source: The Audience Agency (2021)

Physical sites – including industrial assets
In addition to these existing assets there are other ‘headline’ investments in capital infrastructure.
Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter
A £34m project to which TVCA is contributing £20m supporting the local tourism economy by creating a visitor attraction with better surrounding visitor and public realm infrastructure, preserving heritage including listed buildings and those deemed officially to be ‘at risk’.
Its international heritage significance as the first public steam railway with projected annual visitor figures of 369k sitting respectably alongside the National Railway Museum (‘normally’ i.e., 2019 figures) at 714k, HMS Belfast 327k, St Michael’s Mount 359k.
Northern Studios
These film and TV studios form an important ‘anchor’ to workspace developments for creative and related supply chain (e.g., catering, logistics) enterprises and freelancers alongside the neighbouring Northern School of Art, BIS creative workspace and other suitable nearby retail and workspace locations.
Other Infrastructure
Regional infrastructure which is not specific to creative or cultural industries has as significant a role to play as existing ‘creative’ infrastructure such as creative workspace, cultural venues or heritage sites.
	•	With TVCA taking over transport responsibilities for the region, there is the potential for better transport planning associated to significant cultural and tourism events to reduce environmental impact, improve visitor experience and increase average revenue per customer for local businesses – as well as supporting better business travel and commuting for those working in the creative economy.
	•	Digital infrastructure investments plans include 5G, neutral host network (high bandwidth and low latency local connectivity and hosting) and IoT and other ‘smart’ infrastructure. Digital infrastructure can attract significant private investment alongside central government or public innovation funding beyond the usual sources for creative and cultural finance. See section below on Digital Assets.
Unoccupied or under-used high street inventory is also a key potential asset to creative and cultural enterprise growth with interventions such as enterprise support alongside low-cost, low-risk space. This reflects the trend towards experiences replacing traditional retail (often substituted by online sales). Research and policy in this area is developing for Arts Council England but more embedded for Historic England with its High Streets Heritage Action Zones.

Institutional/enterprise assets and investments
This section analyses the economic performance of creative enterprises across the Tees Valley to provide segmentation by turnover, assets and location which we can use to identify evidence of need, specialisation and clustering.

Table 19  Distribution of creative enterprises by turnover band
Turnover Band
Count
Total Turnover (£m)
Total Assets (£m)
Total Net Assets (£m)
 
<£20,000
148
1.7
0.7
0.1
£20-50k
1059
33.6
5.2
0.9
£50-100k
424
30.1
16.7
7.9
£100-200k
324
45.5
19.9
4.8
£200-500k
166
50.5
23.7
9.0
£500k-£1m
52
34.6
13.7
8.6
£1-2m
28
38.5
16.3
3.9
£2-5m
11
31.7
27.5
24.6
£5-10m
8
57.5
75.7
46.3
>£10m
3
53.0
63.4
50.4

Source: MyCake (2021)

The sector demonstrates a long tail of micro-businesses. What is particularly notable is that the turnover is surprisingly evenly distributed across all but the smallest band (<£20k per annum). This indicates that there is likely to be merit in programmes which focus attention as much on the growth of organisations and businesses with a turnover of below £500k per annum as on the >£500k organisations across the sector.
Balance sheet assets for organisations with a turnover of more than £2m per annum are substantially higher. Smaller organisations will struggle to secure debt finance from traditional lenders with a lower asset base as security. We would also expect – from other work in providing enterprise support – this to be caused by creative businesses and cultural organisations, especially smaller ones, not capitalising their intangible assets.


Table 20  Distribution of creative enterprises (registered businesses only) by turnover band and local authority area
Turnover Band
Darlington
Hartlepool
Middlesbrough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton-on-Tees
<£20,000
27
14
41
15
42
£20-50k
216
135
228
89
324
£50-100k
98
42
89
30
130
£100-200k
62
34
76
34
102
£200-500k
39
21
36
15
43
£500k-£1m
14
4
12
5
13
£1-2m
5
3
7
1
11
£2-5m
1
-
1
1
6
£5-10m
1
-
2
1
3
>£10m
-
-
1
-
2

Source: MyCake (2021)

Looking at the turnover band splits for each local authority area, we note that not only do Hartlepool and Redcar & Cleveland contain fewer cultural and creative businesses and organisations overall but they also have fewer entities with a turnover of more than £500k. This is likely to mean that not only is there a need to review the capacity of anchor organisations in these locations to support sectoral development but also that the growth focus needs to balance a desire to build more opportunity in these areas with a need to ensure that programmes are suited to the stages of development found in these areas. 

Table 21  Turnover bands by supply chain and local authority area, including charities and other organisations
Count
Darlington
Hartlepool
Middles-brough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton-on-Tees
Total
Organisation Count
534
320
608
307
786
2555
Content
110
61
124
44
150
489
Experiences
100
92
130
128
155
605
Originals
30
33
45
27
61
196
Services
134
55
129
41
189
548
Digital
156
66
167
37
212
638
Creative Workspace
1
2
4
5
3
15
Natural Heritage
3
11
9
25
16
64

Source: MyCake (2021)

Middlesbrough and Stockton show the highest number of organisations overall. Broadly, there is a correlation between the places which have the highest number of organisations and the places which have the highest average turnover per organisation. However, higher numbers of organisations do not always equate to higher average turnover. For example, when we look at the average turnover for each supply chain element by place then we see that Darlington (average £86k turnover) is underperforming in Experiences by comparison to the rest of the Tees Valley.
We suggest that there is real value in identifying the exceptions to the common patterns as a means to then ask questions about what the circumstances are that are driving the over or under performance. So for example whilst Middlesbrough and Stockton have the greatest number of digital organisations (167 and 212 respectively) the average turnover of those in Stockton is almost three times that of organisations in Middlesbrough; whilst Redcar & Cleveland has the smallest number of digital organisations, that group of businesses has the second highest average turnover. Creative Services would appear to cluster in Darlington rather than Middlesbrough and also have a higher average turnover in Darlington as opposed to the rest of the region.


Table 22  Average turnover by supply chain and location
Average (mean) turnover (£000)
Darling-ton
Hartle-pool
Middles-brough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton-on-Tees
All TVCA
Content
103
114
370
78
90
166
Experiences
51
70
73
46
88
67
Originals
71
58
71
101
203
99
Services
126
96
80
78
104
101
Digital
169
78
133
342
402
237
Total per borough (£000)
61,731
25,827
91,047
27,914
144,370
350,889
Organisation Count
530
307
595
277
767
2,476
Ave t/o per creative business (£000)
116
84
153
101
188
142


Innovation assets
Innovation ‘assets’ for Tees Valley are its physical, knowledge, organisational or ecosystem assets, resources and capabilities that support innovation. Increasing the ‘innovative capacity’ of the local creative ecosystem can contribute to better social outcomes through public innovation, to economic growth in the creative economy and to the wider tech, science and other parts of the region and North East’s economy. In the creative sector in Tees Valley as elsewhere, because of the dominance of freelancers and SMEs, it is as much about growing innovative capacity in supply chains and across networks as it is growing that capacity in individual organisations.
Universities form a vital part of the innovative capacity of any region – not directly through their attraction of talent or development of skills nor through academic research, although these can help. It is ‘knowledge exchange’ – between academia and ‘industry’ – also referred to as ‘knowledge transfer’ which contributes to innovative capacity through the skills, knowledge and IP that universities themselves can bring, their convening and networking power out to other people, organisations, resources and IP and their ability to bring in innovation funding, principally from UKRI (Innovate UK, Research England, Research Councils) and formerly from EU programmes some of which are still running, where UK partner involvement is now more problematic. Public engagement is a greater strategic and funding priority with public support of research and civic engagement by universities higher up the political agenda and more dominant in HEI performance management and funding regimes.
Supporting recent graduates to start-up businesses and spinout companies from research activities are two knowledge transfer activities. Collaborative Research & Development (R&D) with industry is another important element often via Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) or otherwise (often with UKRI funding). Industrially sponsored PhDs, graduate or post-graduate internships and CPD programmes (non-qualification based, mid-career professional development) are other mechanisms. 
There is one university, Teesside University, within Tees Valley. It has a good reputation for knowledge exchange, being part of a cohort of universities. Running KTPs in many different industrial sectors, it has a focus in industrial digitalisation, immersive media. Whilst culture and creativity is a focus for the university, it is harder to attract creative SMEs to engage in knowledge exchange (see below for more details). Teesside cannot on its own provide the broad range of subject matter, creative sub-sector or the creative, technical and commercial disciplines that the region’s creative economy needs to grow through innovation – potentially being a bottleneck to innovation in the region’s creative economy if a wider range of HEIs and other partners are not involved.
However, universities in the wider North East region are available to the Tees Valley creative economy to use as assets to support innovation. Creative Fuse is a model to build on here, providing business consultancy, innovation support and knowledge exchange to creative, cultural, heritage and digital sectors in the wider North East region. Although this programme is ERDF funded, finishing in 2022, the Creative Fuse North East Partnership already includes Teesside, Newcastle, Durham, Northumbria and Sunderland Universities. Northern Accelerator is another platform from which to build out creative and cultural focus alongside digital. University of Leeds would be a valuable addition with its interdisciplinary research in arts and humanities and culture – and business school.
Knowledge and creative intangible assets of the local creative economy will be more significant to its future growth and sustainability than built/physical assets in the area and the balance sheet assets of enterprises based here. These include the ideas of freelancers and workers, creative works and related IP of all kinds such as theatre productions, exhibitions, creative content – both completed and produced or in development, together with brands and data. These assets are developed through creative R&D.
Interviews with stakeholders demonstrated that freelancers and the micro- and small enterprises that make up the vast majority of the creative and cultural economy in the region do not themselves have the innovative capacity within their organisations to engage in R&D, especially where this is collaborative. They are interested in innovating and see the value to their businesses, but they struggle to take the time out from winning and delivering paid work to develop ideas, partnership, obtain funding and then deliver and exploit the outputs of R&D projects.
It is hard for businesses/organisations and universities in the North East to demonstrate the potential return from a KTP or sponsored PhD focused on the creative economy. The KTP model is routed in engineering – not necessarily suitable for ‘pre-innovation’ level companies who have little revenues, staff or infrastructure – the most ‘creative’ KTPs typically being around industrial applications of design with a few culture-based projects being the exception. Management KTPs (mKTPs) are one answer, running until 2022 in their current form, focusing on the leadership and management capacity of a business/organisation although uncommon in the creative industries nationally as well as regionally. AHRC are piloting ‘mini-KTPs’ which may be more suitable to creative and cultural micro-businesses in the region.
Part of the ‘exchange’ element of knowledge exchange is universities understanding future skills needs for local creative, cultural and digital employers. To make this – and all creative industries knowledge exchange – work better in Tees Valley, greater brokerage between employers and HEIs is required, with more focus on developing entrepreneurs, their businesses strategy and capacity and strategic partnerships as a precursor to R&D. Creative entrepreneurs in the region struggle to keep up with the funding options for innovation and R&D and in particular people running or fundraising for cultural organisations are often unfamiliar with enterprise, business, innovation and R&D funding. 
An important part of innovative capacity of the region is the quality and expertise of its professional services, yet there is some evidence that this expertise – particular around the accounting and tax treatment of R&D activities and resulting intangible assets – is lacking in local lawyers and accountants.

5.2	Horizon Scan of Funding and Financing Opportunities 
These include:
Inward investment whether public, private or ‘social’ finance
Compatible/relevant national or regional public funding
Other initiatives or programmes that can provide support, resources or otherwise leverage in additional capital funding or assets
We included the full breadth of the creative economy in determining what is compatible or relevant:
Arts, culture and heritage whether non-profit, commercial or a social enterprise mix
Creative services, creative originals, creative content
Their supply chains
We looked at the following different types of funding for capital in local creative economy:
	•	Funding specific to arts, culture or heritage
	•	National public funding programmes (not culture specific)
	•	Social investment, Trusts & Foundations, Crowdfunding/Individual Giving
	•	Private investment – corporate, venture
A.	Funding specific to arts, culture or heritage 
Here we review capital funding from:
Arts Council England
National Lottery Heritage Fund
Historic England
Arts Council England (ACE)
Arts Council England has the following capital funding:
Capital Investment Programme
Cultural Investment Fund
National Lottery Project Grants
Capital Investment Programme
	•	The current call is about to close but they are a regular feature of ACE funding overall. We would expect there to be yearly opportunities for such funds, after a COVID-induced hiatus where Cultural Renewal Fund dominated with some capital elements, unlikely to be repeated.
	•	ACE capital funding has evolved over recent years to put a much bigger emphasis on digital infrastructure: to produce, distribute and exhibit cultural content, reaching homes, cultural venues, and community spaces, including purchasing or developing: 
	•	Enhanced capability in data and analytics; content strategy; digital accessibility; digital marketing; customer relationship management; e-commerce; and business systems
	•	Enhanced capability to support content production and distribution or improve visitor experience
	•	ACE has a broad interpretation of ‘physical infrastructure’:
	•	It is not just about buildings, also including furniture, fixtures, equipment, vehicles, musical instruments
	•	Its purpose must be to meet the diverse needs of creative practitioners, participants, partners, workforce, volunteers, and audiences.
	•	Work to buildings emphasises:
	•	Adapting existing buildings to cultural or creative uses in areas of low cultural infrastructure.
	•	Adapting existing buildings to support business model innovation and the circular economy; improve environmental performance; or enhance physical accessibility.
	•	Public realm improvements to support outdoor events and festivals.
	•	Building-based projects need to be at RIBA stage 3.
	•	Professional fees and other one-off costs are eligible.
	•	The current guidance emphasises that anything that will be capitalised on the balance sheet of the applying organisation(s) is eligible.
	•	Non-profit and statutory/public bodies with cultural aims are eligible to apply. Not for-profit organisations.
	•	The current range of grants available per application is £100-750k, with a 5% match required for grants up to £250k and 10% match required for larger amounts.
Cultural Investment Fund
	•	This is made up of the Cultural Development Fund, Museums Estate and Development Fund and Libraries Investment Fund. Originally envisaged as a 5-year programme pre-COVID, funding beyond its second round in 21/22 is not as yet confirmed. It is DCMS funding administered by ACE with decisions made by the Secretary of State but undoubtedly heavily advised by ACE. We will not know who is successful from the second round until February 2022.
	•	Were further funding to be confirmed, the most relevant strand would be the Cultural Development Fund, it being designed to support capital investment in ‘transformative place-based creative and cultural initiatives’ with outcomes. 
	•	Economic growth and productivity, including inclusive opportunities for creative and cultural careers and talent development and retention and investment in high-performing and innovative sectors.
	•	Supporting places to be more attractive in which to live, work, visit and invest, particularly in ‘marginalised’ areas with low cultural engagement.
	•	Strengthening local leadership, partnerships and capability, with an emphasis on diversity and the skills needed to achieve this
	•	Economic and social recovery from the impact of COVID-19, including the return of businesses and people to economic centres – as well as regeneration of communities more broadly
	•	Any investment in assets is to be entirely instrumental in economic growth and productivity improvement and then can focus on one of capacity building of local creative and cultural ecosystems or cultural placemaking. 
	•	Again, digital infrastructure is emphasised, potentially including:
	•	Large-scale software purchases such as a town or city-wide box office
	•	Portable equipment for outdoor events and festivals
	•	Equipment for the production or distribution of digital content, such as high-spec digital studios
	•	Built environment investments can include:
	•	Affordable workspaces, workshops, research and development facilities, managed workspace business incubation or makerspaces for the cultural and creative industries
	•	Public realm improvements linking cultural infrastructure or supporting outdoor events and festivals, such as highway or pedestrian access redesign
	•	A proportion of resource investments that are not capital but complement capital expenditure are permitted, for example:
	•	Skills and business support to build capacity and resilience across the creative industries, capacity building for cultural partnerships
	•	Enterprise and skills development for sustainable culture and creative industries sector growth
	•	Start-up costs for running new assets
	•	Complementary cultural activities, including core costs
	•	Training in the use of new digital assets
	•	Projects need to articulate a strategic vision (which this strategy provides) and demonstrate both ‘cultural maturity’ (in approach rather than existing ecosystem) and commitment to ‘culture-led growth’. Alongside culture, personal creativity, creative work and creative industries are both repeatedly emphasised.
	•	This fund is designed to support partnerships projects led by a local authority, Local Enterprise Partnership or other ‘appropriate body’ - outside London.
	•	Second round funding applications had to be in the range £2-5m with a maximum of £700k of supporting resource activity alongside capital investment. Match has to be 15% and non-public funding is encouraged, with crowdfunding and social investment highlighted as sources alongside corporate sponsorship and individual giving.
National Lottery Project Grants
	•	A rolling programme which permits up to £100k of capital within any one application. Permission to apply is required for applications above £100k or applications above £15k including capital.
	•	In addition to building works funding can be used to buy equipment or other assets such as vehicles or instruments.
	•	This funding also supports innovation projects such as:
	•	exploring new ways of working with technology and digital at a significant scale
	•	establishing new partnerships in practice and research
	•	supporting or testing new touring models and ways of removing barriers to access
	•	testing new ways of reaching new and diverse audiences including through experimental practice in digital engagement
	•	developing exceptional projects in non-traditional spaces and venues
National Lottery Heritage Fund
The National Lottery Heritage Fund is primarily a capital investor.
Its strategic funding framework 2021-24:
	•	Has a mandatory inclusion outcome for all projects of "a wider range of people will be involved in heritage,” necessitating research, strategies and planning for this in bid preparation and activities delivering this within projects.
	•	Has high-level outcomes of:
	•	heritage will be in better condition
	•	heritage will be identified and better explained
	•	people will have learned about heritage, leading to change in ideas and actions
	•	Permits ‘activity’ alongside asset purchase and development.
	•	Increasingly focuses on wellbeing, capacity-building and innovation.
	•	Prioritises community heritage, landscapes and nature and heritage at risk – other categories covered being historic buildings and monuments; industrial, maritime and transport; museums, libraries, archives and collections; intangible heritage (such as historical figures, folklore and customs).
	•	Has different processes and guidance for grant amounts in the range £3-10k, £10-250k, £250k-£5m and above £5m.
Further reprioritisation in recovery from COVID applies to 21/22 but can reasonably expected to continue to some extent in the next one or two financial years at least. These priorities are:
	•	Boosting the local economy including job creation.
	•	Local areas: “the local area will be a better place to live, work and visit”.
	•	Skills: “people will have developed skills”.
	•	Organisational resilience: “funded organisations will be more resilient.”
In addition, economic growth is supported through the Heritage Enterprise process.
Historic England
Heritage Action Zones (and their High Street HAZ variant) have become a popular vehicle for place-based regeneration schemes focused around built heritage assets and there is no reason to assume that something similar to them will not continue.
Historic England also funds planning authorities the cost of preparing conservation area management plans (CAMPs) to help guide placemaking in conservation areas. 
B.	National public funding programmes (not culture specific)
Post-Brexit adjustments, COVID-19, localism and the ‘levelling up’ agenda are driving government funding and policy towards:
	•	Investment into infrastructure outside London and more economically and socially advantaged areas.
	•	Place-based policymaking and funding schemes.
	•	Investment into capacity building of all kinds bringing together different stakeholders across the private, third and public sectors, joining up supply chains, bringing together different parts of the economy in a place.
Such schemes tend to not be sector specific. They will rarely specifically reference arts, culture or heritage or the wider creative economy – nor exclude them. Digital technology is often emphasised as a horizontal sector and set of technologies that is transforming society, the economic and all industries. 
The Creative Industries Council, cultural arms-length bodies of DCMS (ALBs), the Local Government Association (LGA) and The Audience Agency (TAA) amongst others have been active in promoting the opportunities that these generic funds afford local and regional creative and cultural ecosystems, if the business case and narrative is framed in a way that is appropriate to each fund. This is often different to the framing and narrative required for normal cultural funding (see above) or social impact/third sector funding (see below).
There is considerable investment, which is not capital or related to capital, relevant to other parts of these frameworks – such as the National Skills Fund. Funding schemes relating to capital are more limited and include:
	•	Towns Fund via which an initial allocation of 101 places have had funding confirmed. 
	•	The Department for Levelling Up, Homes and Communities (DLUHC) committed to a further competitive allocation of funding for further towns that were not initially selected but has not yet provided details of the timetable or process.
	•	Community Renewal Fund - positioned as funding preparatory work and piloting approaches for the larger Shared Prosperity Fund, the notional replacement for various EU ‘structural’ funding.
	•	The Autumn budget announced £2.6bn for the UK Shared Prosperity Fund over the Spending Review period but we are awaiting further details.
	•	The Levelling Up Fund as a follow on from the Towns Fund focuses on local capital and infrastructure. It has just announced its round 1 successful bidders.
	•	Round 1’s prospectus has cultural and heritage infrastructure as a theme.
	•	Community Ownership Fund enables voluntary and community groups to bid for match funding to acquire important assets and run them for the benefit of the local community. 
	•	The Fund will run until 2024/25 and there will be at least 8 bidding rounds in total.
	•	Whilst the core idea is acquiring assets, emphasis (and proportion of bid scoring, based on the round 1 prospectus) is placed on:
	•	Strengthening capacity and capability in communities and inclusion in the project itself with the proposal demonstrating community support and local partnerships – thus creating a requirement on this capital leverage investment fund to support activities to develop these.
	•	Setting up a new community business or buying an existing business in order to save an asset or amenity of importance to the community – needing local social entrepreneurs to be identified or developed and the required skills and resources to be in place to manage the asset
Example asset types include cinemas, theatres, music venues, museums, galleries – and community centres (in which creative and cultural activities could take place, embedded within local communities and high streets).
	•	Outcomes include greater local participation in arts and culture. 
C. Social investment, Trusts & Foundations, Crowdfunding/Individual Giving
Social investment is the use of repayable finance to help an organisation achieve a social purpose. 
Based on an analysis of the Big Society Capital ‘deal level data’ there are no identifiable investments from Social Investors into creative & cultural organisations based in the Tees Valley despite a total value of investments of £2.9bn across 5,100 organisations nationally (across all sectors). Local investors such as North Star Ventures have had creative industries specialist funds in the past. Whilst there are no specialist funds operating currently creative and cultural organisations could make use of the current funds run by North Star which are open to non-profits as well as commercial entities. The need for capacity building and development work in order to increase the investment readiness of organisations in the Tees Valley fits with the type of work undertaken by Creative United for KeyFund under the project name of Prosper North (of the 89 organisations which participated, three beneficiaries, Whippet Up CIC, The Auxiliary Project Space and Tees Music Alliance, were from within TVCA). 
All of this suggests a need to create a bridge between social investors and creative & cultural organisations in Tees Valley as it would appear that despite appropriate funds being available, they are under-utilised by organisations in the region. The work of Access Foundation may be relevant and in particular their Enterprise Development Programme and their Investment Readiness work. 
An analysis of data supplied to 360Giving indicates that grants totalling £1.1m were made to cultural and creative organisations in the region by private Trusts & Foundations over the last five years. Whilst we have not benchmarked this against other areas of the UK, we suspect that that TVCA is under-represented by comparison to the national average spend per head of population in the grant making activities of many of the private foundations. We would suggest that work be undertaken to review the national average spend per head of the top 10 private foundations which focus on arts & culture (e.g., Esmee Fairbairn Foundation, Paul Hamlyn Foundation, Garfield Weston Foundation) and then compare this to the current spend levels in TVCA so that a case can be made to level up spending in the Tees Valley. The work of the Association of Charitable Foundations may also be relevant to the development of such strategies. 
Further detail is given at APPENDIX E: Social & impact investing, below.

D.	Existing investments
 Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
TVCA Ref:
TV0048
Project Name:
Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter
Location: 
Darlington 
Total Project Cost:
£34,371,864 
TVCA funding requested:
£20,000,000
Total of other funding sources: £
Source
Amount
Status

Towns Fund 
 
£4,609,676
Secured subject to Business Case approval (expected July 21)

Darlington BC 
£1,236,090
Approved in principle - subject to cabinet approval once RIBA stage 4 cost plan and design work complete (expected October 21)

Indigenous Growth Fund
£2,206,098
Secured subject to Call Off (expected August 21)

NLHF 
£1,600,000
Unsecured
At second stage of 3 stage application process
(Expected November 22)

A1 Steam Locomotion Trust (A1SLT) / Darlington Railway Preservation Society (DRPS)
£3,600,000
In kind - Secured
 
 

Arts Council England 
 
£800,000
Unsecured, EOI submitted to Museum Estate and Development Fund (MEND) (expected Dec 21)

Railway Heritage Trust
£200,000
 
Unsecured, application submitted (expected Oct 21)

Historic England
£120,000
Secured 


Table 23  Funding for Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter


To 
date
Jul-Sep 21
Oct-Dec 21
Jan-Mar 22






Income funded by receipts from
Total

Q2 21/22
Q3 21/22
Q4 21/22
21/22 Total
22/23
23/24
24/25
25/26
Total
TVCA
           20,000,000 
           2,243,873 
           1,510,612 
           3,206,705 
           3,442,083 
           8,159,400 
             9,596,727 



   20,000,000 
Towns Fund
             4,609,676 





             4,609,576 



     4,609,576 
HLF
             1,600,000 






   1,600,000 


     1,600,000 
Rail Heritage Trust
                200,000 






      200,000 


        200,000 
Arts Council
                800,000 






      800,000 


        800,000 
Historic England
                120,000 






     100,000 


        100,000 
Indigenous Growth Fund/ DBC
             2,206,098 






  2,206,098 


     2,206,098 
Darlington Borough Council
             1,216,090 





          78,191 
 1,157,889 

     20,000 
     1,256,080 
A1 Trust
             3,600,000 





            3,600,000 



     3,600,000 
Total
          34,351,864 
          2,243,873 
          1,510,612 
          3,206,705 
          3,442,083 
          8,159,400 
          17,884,494 
  6,063,987 
             -   
     20,000 
  34,371,754 

Figure 41 Funding mix for Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter




Figure 42  Logic model for Darlington Railway Heritage Quarter

 
Redcar & Cleveland, Kirkleatham and the Wilton Freeport site
There is a total investment commitment under the Welcome to Redcar and Cleveland programme of c. £31m has £20m of TVCA investment capital and a further TVCA £4.5m of funding to the station. This investment recognises heritage assets of Saltburn as a designated Heritage Coast and several neighbouring SSSIs with Guisborough’s conservation area. Redcar’s seafront houses Palace Hub and Tuned In! which we reference as being part of the boroughs creative microcluster.
Cleveland Ironstone Mining Museum in Skinningrove has benefitted from a multi-million pound capital development programme and is set to re-open in Spring 2022. The funding from NLHF has also enabled the engagement of new staff which in turn is showing a return on investment via greater responses to social media marketing activity. This demonstrates the need to wrap content and activity around the assets in order to build ongoing engagement and profile along with connection both to hospitality offers and activities on related or proximate sites. 
As a comparison the development of Magna in Rotherham and the multi-year capital development at the National Mining Museum in Wakefield both demonstrate the potential to achieve substantial audience figures on an ongoing basis and the relevance to schools curriculum from industrial assets of this type.
The recently opened Kirkleatham Walled Garden is attracting good press and speaking to a renewed interest in the outdoors and environment post-lockdown in the context of COP.
As we note under digital assets below, the Freeport will attract industrial and commercial business and investments. Although targetted support for creative businesses is not a priority, there will be significant supply chain development opportunities for creative services and digital businesses which will in turn contribute to creative and particularly digital critical mass in businesses and freelancers in the locality.
In terms of levelling up socially and economically, as well as creating an attractive tourism and cultural offer, there is a substantial need for additional investment over and above these programmes. Given the relative underinvestment by ACE, NLHF and other cultural funders, we recommend a focus on developing proposals for investment in new cultural tourism offers. To be competitive and compelling, further investments will be required and support to creative/cultural/tourism enterprise start-up to fill out the hospitality offer.
Alongside capital investment, this area is a strong candidate for additional funding for creative skills and talent development and creative enterprise support to realise creative economy and social enterprise benefits off the back of the improved infrastructure, particularly keeping one-off spend in the locality.
Hartlepool Waterfront
[Business case information not received]
Naval history around National Museum of the Royal Navy comparison to Portsmouth
[Business case information not received]
Digital assets: Linking creative enterprise and innovation to local digital innovation
TVCA has a programme of activity to have digital technologies support growth and renewal in the region. These operate around 3 themes:
	•	Infrastructure
	•	Innovation
	•	Inclusion
These often involve bidding into central government funds or entering into partnerships with commercial providers. So, they are continually evolving.
Opportunities:
	•	Alongside forthcoming 5G, neutral host network (high bandwidth and low latency local connectivity and hosting) and IoT and other ‘smart’ infrastructure investments, there is the potential for one or more ‘Tech4Good’ funds to support social innovation and inclusion into which creative and cultural enterprise could bid to support applied research, together with communities and non-creative/cultural third sector organisations.
	•	There should also be the potential for low or no cost services to public and third sectors, including those in the arts, culture and heritage sectors or supporting creative and socially innovative uses of digital.
	•	Initial digital investments are expected to be around Redcar and the Wilton (Freeport) site. Understandably these will focus on manufacturing, logistics and other process innovation. Createch, design and creative services companies would be expected to have specific opportunities arising from the Freeport generally and this investment in particular. Provision of workspaces in and around the Freeport for these kinds of enterprises should be a priority in capital investments.
	•	Small cell pop-up 5G around Kirkleatham and other cultural and heritage locations can provide new models of data capture, monetization and engagement for festivals and events. The Festival of Thrift could be supported through TVCA creative R&D funding (if Tech4Good funding not available alongside infrastructure) to pilot new associated creative, operational and business models for such hybrid digital/physical cultural events.
	•	The Centre for Digital Innovation at Teesside University is a potential partner for innovation/R&D projects for creative and cultural enterprises. An extension or evolution of the Creative Fuse model could be supported through TVCA sector development (R&D) funds to have a sister ‘Centre for Creative Innovation’ supporting the development of a ‘Createch’ cluster and further R&D activity.
	•	The host network has many potential benefits for media production, production and post-production facilities and associated clusters of HEIs and creative workspaces. Investment for this should be earmarked for the Hartlepool Film &TV Studios, the neighbouring Northern School of Art, BIS creative workspace and other suitable nearby locations.
	•	With TVCA taking over transport responsibilities for the region, there is the potential for better transport planning associated to significant cultural and tourism events to reduce environmental impact, improve visitor experience and increase average revenue per customer for local businesses.
5.3	Analysis and interpretation
UK capital funders still do invest in land and buildings, but with a strong focus on:
	•	Public engagement – local people, potential users/audiences/visitors of those land and buildings often in a co-design or deliberatively democratic style
	•	Other activities required to realise the social, economic and environmental benefits of improved physical infrastructure 
	•	Ensuring that talent, skills, organisational and sectoral capacity are developed alongside new assets especially where these are required to run, manage, use or otherwise gain from such new assets
They also regard digital infrastructure of all kinds – associated with buildings and public realm as well as independent of it – as equally important.
5.4	Investment review 
Overview
	•	313 Grants identified between 2015-16 and 2020-21
	•	Total value of £28m in grants received in this period
	•	Largest single grant made was £2m to Stockton on Tees Council from NLHF (Townscape Heritage) 
	•	All grants over £1m were to Local Authorities
	•	Local authorities received approximately £11m in grant funding
	•	The biggest funders to local authorities are the Lottery Distributors
	•	Average grant value was £92k
Investment data supplied either by TVCA or by individual local authorities has been included. We would caveat this by saying that the data on local authority grants is incomplete both in terms of years of data and geographic coverage. 

Table 24  Investment by funder type 

Central Government (inc. ALB’s)
Local Government
Lottery Distributor
Grant-making Orgs
Count
213
21
36
43
Total (000)
£21,623
£331
£5,669
£1,099
Average (000)
£102
£62
£157
£26
Per head of population (TVCA)
£31
£3
£8
£1.58

The Local Government grant funding data includes all grants made into TVCA area from NLHF but excludes local authority funding of Council-run venues - in the main this is because it has not been supplied to us, other than in Middlesbrough, where the budgeted amount is calculated as the difference between forecasted earned income and forecasted total expenditure and is approximately £1.5m.


Table 25  Investment by year

2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
2021-22
Count
10
10
21
72
93
86
52
Total (000)
£2,511
£3,887
£3,338
£4,712
£4,431
£7,569
£4,788
Average (000)
£251
£387
£159
£65
£48
£88
£92
Per head of pop.
£4
£6
£5
£7
£6
£11
£7

Notes:
	•	There is more data available on more recent years than on older years so this may not reflect the full funding position especially in older years. 
	•	2021-22 is the live year and is not complete.
	•	It is also expected that not all data for 2020-21 has been released yet so this figure may change. 
	•	2021-22 includes a budget for spend on sites run by Middlesbrough Council.

Table 26  Investment to organisations by local authority area 

Darlington
Hartlepool
Middlesbrough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton on Tees
Count
64
44
60
65
106
Total (000)
£4,726
£1,970
£6,976
£3,329
£11,728
Average (000)
£74
£45
£116
£51
£111
Per head of population
£43
£21
£48
£24
£58


Arts Council England investment
Tees Valley received 187 grants totalling £19.2 million in ACE investment between 2015 and 2022. Stockton, with 80 awards totalling £9.5 million, is the greatest beneficiary.

Table 27  Arts Council England investment by place

Darlington
Hartlepool
Middlesbrough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton on Tees
Count
31
20
38
28
80
Total (000)
£3,751
£618
£6,724
£773
£9,479
Average (000)
£121
£31
£177
£28
£118
Per head of pop.
£34
£6.50
£46
£5.55
£48
The average spend per head of population in Tees Valley over this period was £3.95 per annum. In non-Covid years, the typical range of all-England average for ACE monies is £7 - £9 per head of population per annum.
Investment is largely into ‘platforms’ – the four existing NPOs, festivals or other venues - with minimal of investment going to individual artists through Project Grants or Developing Your Creative Practice (DYCP) awards. Only 13 DYCP grants, totalling £130k, were made across four financial years within five local authorities. 
Non-ACE grants are worth £9,565,889 across the same period.
Table 28  Arts Council England grants

2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
2021-22
Count
4
4
4
43
46
66
20
Total (£000)

£1,269
£1,269
£1,269
£2,715
£2,992
£7,410
£2,234
Culture Recovery Fund (£000)






£5,107

Developing Your Creative Practice (£000)



£10
£27
£17
£76
NPO

£1,269
£1,269
£1,269
£1,993
£1,993
£1,993
£1,993
Project Grants (£000)




£712
£972
£293
£165
Per head of population (TVCA 2019 levels)
£1.83
£1.83
£1.83
£3.91
£4.31
£10.68
£3.22
 Investment from Lottery Distributors for cultural purposes
The total funding from Lottery Distributors to identified arts organisations or projects in TVCA was £5.7m between 2015-22.

Table 29  Investment from Lottery Distributors for cultural purposes

Darlington
Hartlepool
Middles-brough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton on Tees
Count
2
3
13
12
6
Total (000)
£20
£1,240
£128
£2,190
£2,090
Average (000)
£10
£413
£10
£183
£348
Per head of population
£0.18
£13
£0.87
£16
£10

Townscape Heritage (£1.1m Hartlepool 2016, £2m Stockton 2017) and Heritage Enterprise (£1.3m Redcar & Cleveland, 2018) funding comprises a total of £4.4m and was received by Local Authorities (not individual organisations). 
If an award is to an organisation which is not obviously in the creative/culture sector (e.g., a school) this does not mean that the purpose of the grant is not creative/cultural. Such grants are not included in the above. If the funds are going to the Local Authority but the purpose is not identified, then these too are excluded.

Figure 43  Investment from Lottery Distributors by local authority area


Lottery distributors made a total of £5.48 million available in Covid recovery grants to arts, creative, cultural and heritage organisations. A further three grants were unallocated to a local authority as there were no identifiers in data.

Table 30  COVID-specific grants identified

Darlington
Hartlepool
Middlesbrough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton on Tees
Count
9
11
11
13
20
Total (000)
£1,726
£434
£1,704
£469
£1,147
Average grant (000)
£192
£40
£155
£36
£57

Comparator – Liverpool City Region
We have chosen Liverpool City Region as a comparator because we have access to data at a similar level of detail (not always available in other places) and because it has gone through a place-based transformation through culture, following a period in which de-industrialisation and realignment of international markets and supply chains had brought about high levels of unemployment and deprivation.
Liverpool City Region (population 1.533 million, compared with Tees Valley’s 672,500) received more than four times as much funding (£85.3m vs £19.2m) to its arts, culture and heritage sector from ACE as did Tees Valley. 

Table 31  ACE investment in Liverpool City Region

2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
2021-22
Count
18
18
18
103
120
220
75
Total (000)
£8,233
£8,233
£8,233
£10,481
£9,644
£31,942
£8,526
Per head of population


£5.37
£5.37
£5.37
£6.84
£6.29
£20.83
£5.56


Liverpool City Council alone (population: 497,000) secured £76.6m in ACE grants:	

Table 32  ACE investment in Liverpool (City Council area only)

2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
2021-22
Count
18
18
18
78
83
158
61
Total (000)
£8,233
£8,233
£8,233
£9,551
£8,494
£25,925
£7,903
Per head of population (Liverpool 2019 levels)
£17
£17
£17
£19
£17
£52
£16

Non-ACE grants identified added a further £12,914,768 via 155 grants across the period to arts, cultural and heritage organisations (or for these purposes). Liverpool invested 35% more from non-ACE funding sources than the whole of Tees Valley, much of it from local authority grants.

Table 33  non-ACE funding for arts, culture and heritage in Liverpool

2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Count
12
12
12
28
43
42
6
Total (000)
£452
£3,635
£154
£702
£6,527
£1,367
£78

Screen industries
Northern Film & Media’s total budget was £262,553 (in 2019-20), rising to £270,963 in 2020-21. Of this the total value of grants awarded across the two years was £49,909. 

Table 34  Northern Film & Media investment in Tees Valley-based organisations

Darlington
Hartlepool
Middles-brough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton on Tees
Total Amount
£8,774
£17,512
£13,465
£5,250
£4,908

The grants above are not included in the grants analysis on the rest of the slides; however, given the small total amount we are confident that this does not affect the overall picture of grant making in the region.
Levelling up
We have commented elsewhere about the importance of developing programmes in a way that reflects equality, diversity & inclusion, and that addresses the need to engage the whole of the potential workforce and audience from every part of the Tees Valley in order to achieve the transformational economic and social outcomes that would among to real ‘levelling up’.
The critical point in this analysis is that Tees Valley currently receives levels of funding from ACE and other Lottery distributors lower than the national average, and lower than comparable areas elsewhere in the country. 







Table 35  Per capita NPO funding agreements (2019/19 to 2021/22)

Source: Arts Council England | National Portfolio dataset

This inhibits growth, undermines resilience and sustainability, reduces new investment and reduces the amount of leverage, in terms of funding from other public, grant and private sources, which the arts, cultural and heritage sector is able to attract.
So, what would be the impact were those funds to be ‘levelled up?
Arts Council England funding
The value of ACE monies as an all-England average across the latest three years (excluding the year in which Culture Recovery Fund money was distributed) is £8.49 per head of population. This draws on funding programmes of the National Portfolio, Developing Your Creative Practice, and Project Grants. We have used this as the basis to calculate what the ‘levelled up’ figure would be given the population in each Local Authority area. 
As ACE data for NPO funds for 2019-20 includes ACE capital in a way which cannot be disaggregated we have run the same calculation on 2018-19 data. This gives a value of annual gain of £3.2m for TVCA as a whole (vs £2.9m above). 
An uplift of this level would almost double the amount received – to 196% of current funding.


Table 36  Gain to TVCA if ACE grants were levelled up to all-England average

2019-20 ACE spend
Value if levelled up
Value of annual gain
Darlington
£404,860
£929,366
£524,506
Hartlepool
£64,466
£807,025
£742,559
Middlesbrough
£848,272
£1,244,065
£395,793
Redcar & Cleveland
£177,580
£1,181,188
£1,003,608
Stockton 
£1,496,717
£1,726,331
£229,614
TVCA
£2,991,895
£5,888,078
£2,896,183

National Lottery Heritage Fund
The value of NLHF monies as an all-England average across the two years of 2017-18 and 2018-19 is £2.84 per head of population. We have used this as the basis to calculate what the ‘levelled up’ figure would be given the population in each Local Authority area. 
The funding from NLHF varies considerably from year to year. We have therefore calculated the difference between the current amount of funding received and the levelled-up amount based on the average received in the two years of 2017-18 and 2018-19.
As the funding is patchy, we have not calculated the annual gain for each local authority, but only the total.

Table 37   Annual gain were NHLF investment to be levelled-up to the all-England average

Mean spend per annum 2017/18 and 2018/19
Value if levelled up
Value of annual gain
Darlington
£0
£310,699

Hartlepool
£28,650
£269,799

Middlesbrough
£0
£415,907

Redcar & Cleveland
£700,850
£394,134

Stockton 
£24,750
£577,134

TVCA
£754,250
£1,968,458
£1,214,208

5.5	Investment opportunities
Our findings suggest that capital investments need to be a balanced portfolio of:
	•	Building on existing strengths – assets, capacity and activity
	•	Addressing cold spots – especially areas with low cultural infrastructure and/or engagement in culture or creative activities
Tees Valley-wide Heritage Area-Based Scheme
An amount (we suggest £20k) should be earmarked to pull together a partnership and develop proposals for a bid to NLHF under their ‘Area-Based Scheme’. Developing NLHF bids is highly specialised and there are consultants who would bid for such work. The level of grant applied for ranges up to £5m.
	•	As NLHF say, “Area-based schemes take a holistic and balanced approach to improving a defined area of natural environment, built environment or peri-urban landscape” - which matches our recommendations that existing assets and planned investments be joined up. We propose the geographical area be the whole of Tees Valley.
	•	“An area-based scheme should be considered as part of a wider strategy or ambition to improve the condition and management of areas of historic or landscape value and help people connect with it.” This creative economy strategy and the DMP provide suitable ‘wider strategies’ in which this project can sit.
	•	“We expect schemes to be led by partnerships of local, regional and national interests”. It will take time to develop the partnerships. Whilst TVCA and the 5 local authorities would need to be involved, it would be important to show how a range of heritage organisations and heritage asset owners were also involved in decision-making and delivery. The development of the proposal should be used to mature partnerships and collaboration between all the different heritage stakeholders in the area.
	•	Such schemes have “the aim of reviving economically disadvantaged areas” – hence project design would need to prioritise areas of disadvantage and with lower engagement in cultural heritage and be explicitly linked to higher-value employment, the start-up and growth of creative (including cultural/digital) enterprises and tourism.
	•	Such schemes are “for the benefit of local residents, workers and visitors” – engagement and partnership with stakeholders in the community and local creative and tourism economy would also need to be designed in from the start.
	•	Activities to be funded include “conserving, repairing and enhancing [the] distinct character” of such economically disadvantaged areas including specifically:
	•	“Works to enable ‘meanwhile’ or ‘pop-up uses’ of currently unused spaces” and “work to bring vacant buildings back into use or encouraging the re-use of vacant space above shops” to support the use of these spaces by local creatives and creative (including cultural/digital) enterprises, including activities which would engage local communities in creative and cultural activities as part of leisure and informal learning.
	•	“Improving access for all, including people with disabilities”, “improvements to the public realm by conserving, restoring or reinstating heritage features” and “improving public facilities such as toilets, seating or picnic areas” including additional physical improvements and wayfinding around and between heritage quarters and other areas of significant heritage investment (e.g. Hartlepool Church Conservation Area, Darlington’s Northgate Conservation Area as part of the Stockton & Darlington HAZ, Stockton Northern Gateway Townscape, Middlesbrough Historic Quarter Conservation Area, Kirkleatham Walled Garden in Redcar & Cleveland) and creative economy investment (e.g. the film studios in Darlington)
	•	“Carrying out structural and external repairs and reinstating elements of architectural detail to historic buildings” and “conserving other historical structures and removing inappropriate structures” targeting conservation areas, especially those at risk.”
	•	“Restoring or enhancing habitats found in the area” and “felling trees, clearing shrub and restoring priority habitats” with priority to the registered public parks and gardens.
	•	They also include “activities to help people engage with the heritage”
	•	“Activities and interpretation to increase the range of audiences” - to involve a range of community and voluntary organisations, cultural organisations and creatives to ‘animate’ built and natural heritage and to co-develop the 21st century story for the area’s current inhabitants of its heritage
	•	“creating new formal and informal learning opportunities”, “providing training in traditional nature or building conservation skills for contractors and trainees” and “providing people with skills and training that contribute to the area's conservation and long-term management” – working with schools and FE organisations across a range of disciplines from history to practical craft skills and digital, and communities and families to introduce them to specialised high-value work, supporting apprenticeships and other work-based learning
	•	The scheme cannot be dominated by single large capital projects. In order to have the best chance of success, it would not include new buildings or structures. It is a chance to address a myriad of smaller requirements not captured within the existing larger projects.
	•	It can include an element of ‘community grants’ which can be disbursed to others not in the partnership. TVCA could choose to match (with say £200k) NLHF funding and potentially leverage in money from other funders such as trusts and foundations, private heritage owners or property developers. Section 106 money agreed between LAs and developers could be used as match here. 

APPENDIX A: Population and cultural engagement profiling
Key summary statistics from this section 
	•	Two thirds of bookers for TVCA cultural venues live in the TVCA, one third elsewhere (resident outside the TVCA area) - (Source – Audience Finder ticketing analysis 2015/16-2020).
	•	86% of residents were repeat visitors to the venue they answered the survey for, 53% of visitors were first-timers - (Source – Audience Finder survey analysis 2016-2020).
	•	Visitors primarily come from the top ‘other’ local authorities - County Durham, Hambleton, Richmondshire, Sunderland, Newcastle upon Tyne, Scarborough, Harrogate, Gateshead, Northumberland, and North Tyneside.  These 10 local authority areas account for 83% of all non-TVCA resident bookers - (Source – Audience Finder ticketing analysis 2015/16-2020).
	•	Visitors from outside the TVCA area (i.e., non-TVCA residents) to cultural venues in the TVCA area are older (52% were over 55, vs. 39% of TVCA residents) - (Source – Audience Finder survey analysis 2016-2020).
	•	Visitors from outside the TVCA area (i.e., non-residents) to cultural venues in the TVCA area are more culturally engaged (highly engaged Audience Spectrum segments) and Home & Heritage - (Source – Audience Finder ticketing analysis 2015/16-2020).
	•	Local and visiting bookers are majority middle-engaged with culture 55% (local), 53% (from outside the TVCA area), however, there is a slightly higher proportion of local bookers who are from lower culturally engaged segments 35% local bookers, compared to 28% visitor bookers (Source – Audience Finder ticketing analysis 2015/16-2020).
	•	All 5 local authorities in TVCA are in the bottom 20% nationally for cultural engagement based on Active Lives - (Source - Active Lives pre pandemic 2019). 
	•	The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted on cultural engagement behaviour, 
Overview of data used
To build understanding of the patterns of cultural engagement in the Tees Valley we have drawn on a number of data sets available, including publicly available sources such as CENSUS and those held by The Audience Agency (Audience Finder ticketing and survey datasets). We have used this data to build an understanding of the following:
	•	The population context - Who lives in the Tees Valley, how does this differ across the different areas and how does this compare to National figures.
	•	The population propensity for cultural engagement - What do we know about the make-up of the population in terms of cultural engagement profiles and indicators.
	•	Attendance behaviour and profiles – Based on existing data available for the area.
	•	Other factors that impact on view of engagement - Such as the impact of Covid-19 and other contextual comparators from elsewhere.
Each of these areas will be considered in turn in the remainder of this section.
Population context
We have considered population size and distribution across the Tees Valley Combined Authority, the social grade of residents and the levels of broad employment (this is addressed in more detail using other tools elsewhere in the report).  Population statistics are also available in the TVCA’s own atlas dashboard - https://teesvalley-ca.gov.uk/InstantAtlas/Tees_Valley_Data_Insights/atlas.html , such as mapping of indices of multiple deprivation across the local authorities of TVCA.
	•	The population statistics indicate that each local authority has a different population size and profile.  Therefore, for strategic purposes the differences or particularities, as well as the similarities, should be taken into consideration.
	•	Level of terminal education is one of the largest indicators of propensity to engage with cultural activity, invariably going hand in hand with a more economically active population – which is here represented through social grade and employment status. On average TVCA has a higher proportion of population who are in lower social grades than the average for England as a whole.  And the average level of employment for TVCA is just slightly lower than the England average.
Population size and distribution
Across the whole of the Tees Valley area Census figures show that the population is almost 700K from just under 300K households. These residents are not evenly distributed across the LAs, with a high of 29% of the population living in Stockton-on-Tees and just 14% in Hartlepool.
Relative levels of cultural engagement and potential therefore need to be considered in light of the population distribution as well as access to relevant provision.
Table 38  Population size in TVCA LAs
Population estimates
Darlington
Hartlepool
Middlesbrough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton-on-Tees
Tees Valley Combined Authority

Count
%
Count
%
Count
%
Count
%
Count
%
Count
%
Adults 15+ estimate 2019
90,023
16%
77,770
14%
117,408
21%
115,200
20%
165,047
29%
565,449
100%
Household estimate 2019
48,750
16%
42,064
14%
60,705
20%
61,760
21%
84,330
28%
297,609
100%
Population estimate 2019
109,466
16%
95,066
14%
146,533
21%
139,127
20%
203,337
29%
693,531
100%
Source: Census estimates 2019

Figure 44  Population size in TVCA local authority areas

Social grade
The following table and graph show that there is considerable variation in social grade across the LAs within the Tees Valley Combined Authority. 
Those in the AB category ranged from 18% in Darlington and Stockton-on-Tees to 12% in Middlesbrough. The average of 15% across the whole of TVCA was considerably lower than the 23% observed for England as a whole. 
For those in the DE category, the opposite was observed, from just 29% in Darlington to 41% in Middlesbrough. The average of 34% across TVCA was higher than the average of 25% for England.
TVCA is therefore characterised by quite large variations in proportions of different social grades in the population across the LAs and overall has a higher proportion from ‘lower’ social grades than England.
Table 39  Social Grade of residents in TVCA and compared to England
Approximated social grade
Darlington
Hartlepool
Middles-brough
Redcar & Cleveland
Stockton-on-Tees
Tees Valley Combined Authority 
England
Index
AB
18%
 
13%
 
12%
 
13%
 
18%
 
15%
 
23%
65
C1
30%
 
26%
 
27%
 
26%
 
29%
 
28%
 
31%
90
C2
22%
 
24%
 
21%
 
25%
 
22%
 
23%
 
21%
110
DE
29%
 
38%
 
41%
 
35%
 
31%
 
34%
 
25%
135
Source: Census estimates
Figure 45  Social Grade of residents in TVCA

Employment status
Levels of employment also vary across the LAs, from a low of 81% in Middlesbrough to a high of 89% in Darlington. The average of 86% was slightly lower than the England average of 89%.
It is interesting to note that one of the reasons that Middlesbrough has the lowest number of employed residents is that it also has the largest proportion of students.

Table 40 Employment status of residents in TVCA and compared to England
Economic activity
Darlington
Hartlepool
Middlesbrough
Redcar and Cleveland
Stockton-on-Tees
Tees Valley Combined 
England
Index
Employed or self-employed
89%
 
84%
 
81%
 
86%
 
87%
 
86%
 
89%
96
Unemployed
7%
 
12%
 
12%
 
10%
 
8%
 
10%
 
6%
157
Full-time student
4%
 
4%
 
7%
 
4%
 
4%
 
5%
 
5%
94

Source: Census estimates 

Population propensity for cultural engagement
Using secondary data from sources such as Target Group Index (TGI), Active Lives and Audience Spectrum we can understand more about population wide propensity to attend and engage with culture.
Arts, museum and heritage attendance using TGI and Active Lives
TGI is a nationally representative survey which is then modelled to describe the likely characteristics of smaller populations.  As such, it should be used as a broad indication of likely behaviour a specific area rather than providing 'actual' figures.	
Overall, based on 2019 data, the figures show that in TVCA there are lower levels of reported cultural engagement than in England as a whole, although for some artforms such as Popular/Rock concerts the difference is small. The following examples are based on the percentage of residents (15 years+) who said that they had attended the following over the previous 12-month period.						
	•	Theatre - 37% attendance compared to 44% for England.
	•	Popular/rock concert: 36% attendance compared to 37% for England.	
	•	Plays: 28% attendance compared to 32% for England.			
	•	Cinema visits: 76% attendance compared to 77% for England.
	•	Museums visit – 23% compared to 27% for England.
The Active Lives Survey (pre-Covid-19 pandemic) provides a broad-brush measure for measuring participation across local authority areas. It is used to designate places eligible to apply for Arts Council England’s Creative People & Places project funding i.e., those local authority areas with the lowest levels of cultural engagement. In the most recent Active Lives survey that was carried out pre-pandemic all 5 of the Local Authorities in TVCA were in the lowest 20% of England LAs on the question ‘Attended an event, performance or festival involving creative, artistic, dance, theatrical or music activity’.		
Audience Spectrum population profiling
Audience Spectrum is a geo-demographic profiling tool that divides the UK population into 10 segments based on their level and type of engagement in arts, culture and heritage.
It can be used as a way of finding out more about the population profile in different geographical areas. To find out more and to view the pen portraits for each segment also visit www.audiencefinder.org/spectrum.
 The table below shows a profile of TVCA segments based on a summary of segments considered to be high engagers, medium engagers and low engagers. Only 8% of the TVCA population are from what are typically high engagers compared to the England population figure of 26%. 51% are from typically low engaged segments, compared to 35% for England. These figures are broken down further by Local Authority on the graph.


Table 41  Audience Spectrum profile for TVCA residents based on High/ Medium / Low engaged Audience Spectrum segments
Type of segments
TVCA population
England population
High-engaged segments
8%
26%
Medium-engaged segments
41%
40%
Low-engaged segments
51%
35%
Total
100%
100%

Figure 46  Audience Spectrum profile for TVCA residents based on High/ Medium / Low engaged Audience Spectrum segments

Source: Audience Spectrum profiling of population


Attendance behaviour and profiles
Using Audience Finder data, it is possible to investigate location, profiles and characteristics of actual attenders to the existing cultural offer in TVCA. This also enables us to understand more about the wider catchment for events, comparing those that attend from within TVCA with those that travel from further afield.
Audience Finder is a data sharing programme set up and managed by The Audience Agency. Participant organisations share their audience data, either from ticketing databases or surveys and this is aggregated into an overall view of audience engagement. www.audiencefinder.org 
Audience Finder ticketing – Profile of TVCA resident bookers
	•	TVCA venues attract those residents in the area who are highly culturally engaged – primarily Commuterland Culturebuffs and Experience Seekers – and the bookers are over-represented for Commuterland Culturebuffs compared to the population.  However, these are relatively small proportions of the TVCA population, so would not represent the opportunity for particular growth in volume of cultural engagement but are key audiences to build relationships with for revenue and loyalty reasons.
	•	The middle-engaged segments make up the highest proportion of bookers, and these segments are a relatively large proportion of the population.  Bookers from Dormitory Dependables and Trips & Treats segments are over-represented in the booker dataset compared to the proportions in the population.  The proportion of Home and Heritage bookers and the proportion in the population are fairly equal. These bookers are likely to be the greatest source of revenues for the venues.
	•	The lower engaged segments are not insignificant in terms of bookers and residents of these segments are a good proportion of the population.  The proportion of Up Our Street bookers and the proportion in the population are fairly equal. The proportion of Kaleidoscope Creativity, Heydays and particularly Facebook Families bookers are under-represented compared to the population profile for these segments.  However, the proportion of Facebook Families bookers is higher than is seen across cultural engagement in other parts of the UK.
It is useful to consider the Facebook Families segment as an example of why it is important to consider each local authority area, the provision or cultural facilities on offer and the history of engagement in each local authority area. 
	•	TVCA bookers are made up of 13% Facebook Families, this is a higher proportion than is found in the Audience Finder ticketing booker profile for England, which is 6%, and more on a par with the proportion of bookers for the North East region of 12%.  It is therefore useful to note that it appears that for the TVCA area and the North East region, as Facebook Families make up a large proportion of the population, the cultural provision in the area has responded to the needs, interests and preferences of its local population.

In total there is a sample of 79,778 bookers who are residents of TVCA based on Audience Finder data since 2015/16.  These have been profiled by Audience Spectrum and are compared to the profile of the population within TVCA on the table below. These are then indexed to show which segments are over or under-represented in the bookers.

Table 42  Audience Spectrum profile comparison - TVCA bookers and TVCA population
Audience Spectrum segment
TVCA resident bookers
TVCA population 
Index (resident bookers vs. TVCA population)
Metroculturals
43
0%
0%
760
Commuterland Culturebuffs
6,691
8%
5%
157
Experience Seekers
1,323
2%
2%
72
Dormitory Dependables
18,167
23%
14%
158
Trips & Treats
18,432
23%
17%
139
Home & Heritage
7,249
9%
10%
91
Up Our Street
10,376
13%
14%
93
Facebook Families
10,409
13%
22%
60
Kaleidoscope Creativity
3,404
4%
7%
58
Heydays
3,684
5%
8%
57
Grand Total
79,778
100%
100%
-
Source: Audience Finder data for ARC Stockton Arts Centre, Darlington Hippodrome, Middlesbrough Town Hall, Theatre Hullabaloo
Table 43  Audience Spectrum profile comparison - TVCA bookers and TVCA population


Audience Finder ticketing – TVCA resident bookers compared with those resident outside TVCA area
	•	Overall, those bookers resident outside the TVCA area are more likely to be highly culturally engaged and have a higher ticket yield.  However, significant proportions are also middle-culturally engaged.  They are less likely to be from the lower culturally engaged segments. 
The Audience Finder ticketing data also enables us to compare those that attended from TVCA with those that have come from further afield. 
The data showed that in addition to the 79,778 bookers from TVCA there were an additional 39,206 that attended from outside this area – accounting for a third (33%) of bookers. So, although a majority are from the local TVCA area, a significant proportion are visiting from further afield. 
When frequency of bookings is considered, we find that, as may be expected, those that are more local book more frequently, and therefore account for a relatively higher income per booker than those from outside TVCA. The table shows that the 67% of bookers who were from TVCA accounted for 77% of the bookings and 71% of the income. 
In terms of income, the analysis showed that those that came from outside TVCA did spend more on tickets, the average yield was £20.79 compared with £15.10 for TVCA residents (note complementary tickets were removed from the analysis).
Table 44  Booking comparison - TVCA bookers and non-TVCA bookers
Location
Number of bookers
Number of bookings
Total income
TVCA residents
67%
77%
71%
Other UK
33%
23%
29%
Grand Total
100%
100%
100%
Source: Audience Finder data for ARC Stockton Arts Centre, Darlington Hippodrome, Middlesbrough Town Hall, Theatre Hullabaloo

To compare the characteristics of the TVCA and further afield bookers in more detail, Audience Spectrum profiling was carried out of both groups and the two profiles were then indexed against each other. The results are shown below.
	•	Bookers resident outside the TVCA are more likely to be more highly culturally engaged – 8% TVCA resident bookers are from the highly engaged Commuterland Culturebuffs segment compared to 14% of bookers resident outside the area.
	•	However, the middle engaged continue to be high proportions of bookers resident both within and outside the TVCA area.
Table 45  Audience Spectrum - origins
Audience Spectrum segment
TVCA resident bookers
Bookers from rest of UK
Grand Total
Index (Other UK vs. TVCA residents)
Metroculturals
43
0%
431
1%
474
0%
2,040
Commuterland Culturebuffs
6,691
8%
5,614
14%
12,305
10%
171
Experience Seekers
1,323
2%
1,185
3%
2,508
2%
182
Dormitory Dependables
18,167
23%
9,851
25%
28,018
24%
110
Trips & Treats
18,432
23%
7,171
18%
25,603
22%
79
Home & Heritage
7,249
9%
3,999
10%
11,248
9%
112
Up Our Street
10,376
13%
4,801
12%
15,177
13%
94
Facebook Families
10,409
13%
3,589
9%
13,998
12%
70
Kaleidoscope Creativity
3,404
4%
1,139
3%
4,543
4%
68
Heydays
3,684
5%
1,426
4%
5,110
4%
79
Grand Total
79,778
100%
39,206
100%
118,984
100%
-
Source: Audience Finder data for ARC Stockton Arts Centre, Darlington Hippodrome, Middlesbrough Town Hall, Theatre Hullabaloo

Figure 47  Audience Spectrum profile comparison - TVCA bookers and non-TVCA bookers


Audience Finder survey – Further characteristics of bookers for TVCA events
Audience Finder also collects survey responses from bookers and attenders, and we can access the aggregate responses for those that attended events in TVCA. 
In terms of age, those that responded to the survey as a result of attending a venue in the TVCA area tended to be younger than those who travelled from further afield. 46% were aged 16-44 compared to 33% of those from outside TVCA. While 22% of TVCA respondents were 65+, this figure rose to 32% for those from outside TVCA.
Table 46  Age comparison - TVCA residents and non-TVCA residents
Age category
TVCA residents in AF Survey sample
 
Visitors to TVCA in AF Survey sample
 
Index (visitors vs. residents)
16 - 24
588
8%
138
5%
66
25 - 34
1,385
18%
299
11%
60
35 - 44
1,529
20%
450
17%
82
45 - 54
1,143
15%
427
16%
105
55 - 64
1,260
17%
537
20%
119
65 or older
1,664
22%
858
32%
144
Total
7,569
100%
2,709
100%
-
Source: Audience Finder survey data

Other key findings from the survey data were as follows:
	•	Drivetime analysis showed that of those that travelled from outside TVCA, 38% travelled for a drivetime of 90 minutes or more, which is a reasonably high drive time – suggesting a wide catchment for the venues.
	•	Those that were from TVCA were more likely to be attending with children in their groups than those who had travelled from outside the area (46% versus 30% respectively).
	•	86% of respondents from TVCA were repeat visitors to the venue they answered the survey for, 53% of visitors were first timers.
	•	In terms of motivations, the TVCA residents are more likely to want to attend for social reasons or to be entertained relative to those from outside the area. Those from outside the TVCA area were more likely, relatively to cite reasons that were to do with learning of being intellectually stimulated (note – these are relative propensities when the two groups are compared with one another).
Table 47  Motivations comparison - TVCA residents and non-TVCA residents
Motivations based on specified list
TVCA residents
Outside TVCA
Index (visitors vs. residents)
[Artform] is an important part of who I am
157
4%
190
10%
290
To learn something
227
5%
190
10%
201
To be intellectually stimulated
146
3%
120
7%
197
To do something new/out of the ordinary
169
4%
113
6%
160
For professional reasons
60
1%
36
2%
144
For reflection
49
1%
28
2%
137
For academic reasons
64
1%
30
2%
112
For a special occasion
73
2%
34
2%
112
To be inspired
126
3%
56
3%
107
To enjoy the atmosphere
184
4%
70
4%
91
To escape from everyday life
57
1%
21
1%
88
To spend time with friends/family
1,112
25%
384
21%
83
To educate/ stimulate my children
123
3%
40
2%
78
For peace and quiet
61
1%
17
1%
67
To educate/stimulate my children
237
5%
64
3%
65
To be entertained
402
9%
104
6%
62
To entertain my children
633
14%
125
7%
47
Other
541
12%
222
12%
98
Base
4,421

1,844


Source: Audience Finder survey data – Could select ‘all that apply’
Impact of Covid-19 on cultural engagement
The following selected highlights are from the 4th wave of the Survey delivered in September 2021 – which indicate some key changes in behaviour as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic as well as ongoing implications.
Those more likely to be ‘happy to attend’ in person cultural activity were:
	•	Those with dependent children (38% vs 25% without)
	•	Younger (esp. 35–44-year-olds)
	•	Living in urban areas (30% vs 23% in rural areas)
	•	Without a disability (30% vs 27% with)
	•	Living in the bottom quartile of Indices of Multiple Deprivation (33% vs. 27%, 27% and 29% for quartiles 2-4).
	•	While people's sense of wellbeing continues to slowly improve, the same audiences' concern about falling ill with Covid-19 is growing, and most expect further lockdowns both this year and next.
	•	Willingness to attend has not increased since June and people remain worried about others' behaviour, though they don't appear to think there is much more organisations themselves should be doing to make them feel safe.
	•	Most people who have worked at home for some or all of the pandemic expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable. As these tend to be high cultural engagers, they may drive increased local attendance in future.
	•	People expect to engage less in general with arts, culture and heritage in the coming months, with a particular decline in interest in festive shows potentially signalling a bleak midwinter for venues. 
	•	However, there is an overall hardening of people's positions moving into the new normal, with attitudes from previously ambivalent groups, about re-attending, now moving from 'I'm hesitant right now' to 'it just doesn't feel safe/right for me'.
	•	
APPENDIX B: Sector definitions

Table 48 Standard Occupational Classifications (SOC codes) used to define Creative Industries
Creative Occupations Group
SOC (2010)
Description
Advertising and marketing
 
 
 
 
1132
Marketing and sales directors

1134
Advertising and public relations directors

2472
Public relations professionals

2473
Advertising accounts managers and creative directors

3543
Marketing associate professionals
Architecture
 
 
 
2431
Architects

2432
Town planning officers

2435
Chartered architectural technologists

3121
Architectural and town planning technicians
Crafts
 
 
 
 
5211
Smiths and forge workers

5411
Weavers and knitters

5441
Glass and ceramics makers, decorators and finishers

5442
 Furniture makers and other craft woodworkers

5449
Other skilled trades not elsewhere classified
Design and designer fashion
3421
Graphic designers

3422
Product, clothing and related designers
Film, TV, video, radio and photography
 
3416
Arts officers, producers and directors

3417
Photographers, audio-visual and broadcasting equipment operators
IT, software and computer services 
 
1136
Information technology and telecommunications directors

2135
IT business analysts, architects and systems designers

2136
Programmers and software development professionals

2137
Web design and development professionals
Publishing
 
2471
Journalists, newspaper and periodical editors

3412
Authors, writers and translators
Museums, galleries and libraries
2451
Librarians

2452
Archivists and curators
Music, performing and visual arts
 
3411
Artists

3413
Actors, entertainers and presenters

3414
Dancers and choreographers

3415
Musicians

Table 49  Standard Industrial Classifications (SIC codes) used in DCMS subsector estimates
Sector
Subsector
SIC
(2007)
Description
Creative Industries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advertising and marketing
 
 
7021
Public relations and communication activities


7311
Advertising agencies


7312
Media representation

Architecture
7111
Architectural activities

Crafts
3212
Manufacture of jewellery and related articles

Design and designer fashion
7410
Specialised design activities

Film, TV, video, radio and photography
 
 
 
 
 
 
5911
Motion picture, video and television programme production activities


5912
Motion picture, video and television programme post-production activities


5913
Motion picture, video and television programme distribution activities


5914
Motion picture projection activities


6010
Radio broadcasting


6020
Television programming and broadcasting activities


7420
Photographic activities

IT, software and computer services
 
 
 
5821
Publishing of computer games


5829
Other software publishing


6201
Computer programming activities


6202
Computer consultancy activities

Publishing
 
 
5811
Book publishing


5812
Publishing of directories and mailing lists


5813
Publishing of newspapers

 
 
 
5814
Publishing of journals and periodicals


5819
Other publishing activities


7430
Translation and interpretation activities

Museums, galleries and libraries 
 
9101
Library and archive activities


9102
Museum activities

Music, performing and visual arts
 
 
 
 
 
5920
Sound recording and music publishing activities


8552
Cultural education


9001
Performing arts


9002
Support activities to performing arts


9003
Artistic creation


9004
Operation of arts facilities
Cultural Sector
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Arts
 
 
 
9001
Performing arts


9002
Support activities to performing arts


9003
Artistic creation


9004
Operation of arts facilities

Film, TV and Music
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1820
Reproduction of recorded media


3220
Manufacture of musical instruments


4763
Retail sale of music and video recordings in specialised stores


5911
Motion picture, video and television programme production activities


5912
Motion picture, video and television programme post-production


5913
Motion picture, video and television programme distribution


5914
Motion picture projection activities


5920
Sound recording and music publishing activities


6020
Television programming and broadcasting activities

Radio
6010
Radio broadcasting

Photography
7420
Photographic activities

Crafts
3212
Manufacture of jewellery and related articles

Museums and galleries
9102
Museum activities

Library and archives
9101
Library and archive activities

Cultural education
8552
Cultural education

Operation of historical sites and similar visitor attractions
9103
Operation of historical sites and buildings and similar visitor attractions
Digital Sector
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing of electronics and computers
 
 
 
 
 
2611
Manufacture of electronic components


2612
Manufacture of loaded electronic boards


2620
Manufacture of computers and peripheral equipment


2630
Manufacture of communication equipment


2640
Manufacture of consumer electronics


2680
Manufacture of magnetic and optical media

Wholesale of computers and electronics
 
4651
Wholesale of computers, computer peripheral equipment and software


4652
Wholesale of electronic and telecommunications equipment and parts

Publishing (excluding translation and interpretation activities)
 
 
 
 
5811
Book publishing


5812
Publishing of directories and mailing lists


5813
Publishing of newspapers


5814
Publishing of journals and periodicals


5819
Other publishing activities

Software publishing
 
5821
Publishing of computer games


5829
Other software publishing

Film, TV, video, radio and music
 
 
 
 
 
 
5911
Motion picture, video and television programme production activities


5912
Motion picture, video and television programme post-production activities


5913
Motion picture, video and television programme distribution activities


5914
Motion picture projection activities


5920
Sound recording and music publishing activities


6010
Radio broadcasting


6020
Television programming and broadcasting activities

Telecommunications
 
 
 
6110
Wired telecommunications activities


6120
Wireless telecommunications activities


6130
Satellite telecommunications activities


6190
Other telecommunications activities

Computer programming, consultancy and related activities
 
 
 
6201
Computer programming activities


6202
Computer consultancy activities


6203
Computer facilities management activities


6209
Other information technology and computer service activities

Information service activities
 
 
 
6311
Data processing, hosting and related activities


6312
Web portals


6391
News agency activities


6399
Other information service activities not elsewhere classified

Repair of computers and communication equipment
 
9511
Repair of computers and peripheral equipment


9512
Repair of communication equipment



Table 50 Relationship between DCMS sector definitions for culture, creative industries and digital sectors
SIC07
Description
Creative Industries
Digital Sector
Cultural Sector
1820
Reproduction of recorded media 


*
2611
Manufacture of electronic components

*

2612
Manufacture of loaded electronic boards

*

2620
Manufacture of computers and peripheral equipment

*

2630
Manufacture of communication equipment

*

2640
Manufacture of consumer electronics

*

2680
Manufacture of magnetic and optical media

*

3212
Manufacture of jewellery and related articles
*

*
3220
Manufacture of musical instruments


*
4651
Wholesale of computers, computer peripheral equipment and software

*

4652
Wholesale of electronic and telecommunications equipment and parts

*

4763
Retail sale of music and video recordings in specialised stores


*
5811
Book publishing
*
*

5812
Publishing of directories and mailing lists
*
*

5813
Publishing of newspapers
*
*

5814
Publishing of journals and periodicals
*
*

5819
Other publishing activities
*
*

5821
Publishing of computer games
*
*

5829
Other software publishing
*
*

5911
Motion picture, video and television programme production activities
*
*
*
5912
Motion picture, video and television programme post-production activities
*
*
*
5913
Motion picture, video and television programme distribution activities
*
*
*
5914
Motion picture projection activities
*
*
*
5920
Sound recording and music publishing activities
*
*
*
6010
Radio broadcasting
*
*
*
6020
Television programming and broadcasting activities
*
*
*
6110
Wired telecommunications activities

*

6120
Wireless telecommunications activities

*

6130
Satellite telecommunications activities

*

6190
Other telecommunications activities

*

6201
Computer programming activities
*
*

6202
Computer consultancy activities
*
*

6203
Computer facilities management activities

*

6209
Other information technology and computer service activities

*

6311
Data processing, hosting and related activities

*

6312
Web portals

*

6391
News agency activities

*

6399
Other information service activities n.e.c.

*

7021
Public relations and communication activities
*


7111
Architectural activities
*


7311
Advertising agencies
*


7312
Media representation
*


7410
Specialised design activities
*


7420
Photographic activities
*

*
7430
Translation and interpretation activities
*


8552
Cultural education
*

*
9001
Performing arts
*

*
9002
Support activities to performing arts
*

*
9003
Artistic creation
*

*
9004
Operation of arts facilities
*

*
9101
Library and archive activities
*

*
9102
Museum activities
*

*
9103
Operation of historical sites and buildings and similar visitor attractions


*
9511
Repair of computers and peripheral equipment

*

9512
Repair of communication equipment

*



APPENDIX C: Consultees
Table 51 Consultees
Ros
Adamson
National Museum of the Royal Navy
Cultural sector
Jo
Ager
Stockton Globe
Cultural sector
Louise
Anderson
Redcar and Cleveland Council
Public sector
Caron
Awkland
Hartlepool Borough Council - BIS Centre
Public sector
Emma
Batey
Northumbria University
Education
Beverley
Bearne
Hartlepool Council
Public sector
James
Beighton
Tees Valley Arts
Cultural sector
Luke
Bishop
Youthquake
Individual artist/freelancer
Jane
Bizimana
ARC and as a freelancer artist
Individual artist/freelancer
Paul
Bristow
Arts Council England
Funder/policymaker
Geraldine
Brown
TVCA
Public sector
Paul
Burns
The Georgian Theatre / Tees Music Alliance
Cultural sector
Anna
Byrne
The Auxiliary
Cultural sector
Henry
Carden
Quiet Crown
Business
Andrew
Carter
Redcar and Cleveland Council
Public sector
Laura
Case
Redcar and Cleveland Council
Public sector
Patrick
Chapman
Northern School of Art
Education
Chloe
Clover
Wander Films
Business
Laura
Condon
Middlesbrough Council
Public sector
Mike
Crawshaw
Darlington Council
Public sector
Marcus
Diamond
Teesside University
Education
Ishy
Din
ARC and as a freelance writer
Education
Rachel
Dodd
Teesside University
Education
Phil
Douglas
Curious Arts
Cultural sector
Joshua
Durnall
Youthquake
Individual artist/freelancer
Graham
Easterlow
Bordello Theatre
Cultural sector
Amanda
Feather
NHLF
Funder/policymaker
Siobhan
Fenton
Animex & Teesside University
Education
Marc
Fleetham
York St John University
Education
Sara
Fortune
Stockton Council
Public sector
Joe
Frankland
PRS Foundation
Other stakeholder
Sam
Gilmore
Middlesbrough Council
Public sector
Nick
Grimshaw
Creative England
Other stakeholder
Michael
Guess
Cafe Etch
Business
Alison
Gwynn
Northern Film + Media
Cultural sector
Stella
Hall
Festival of Thrift
Cultural sector
Juliet
Hardy
SIRF
Public sector
Angela
Harper
KU Bar
Individual artist/freelancer
Sam
Harrison
Animmersion
Business
Jo
Hodgson
Kirkleatham Museum
Public sector
Lu
Hogg
Youthquake
Individual artist/freelancer
Alex
Hornsby
Youthquake
Individual artist/freelancer
Lucy
Horsman
Tees Valley Young Creatives
Individual artist/freelancer
Maxine
Houston
ERS
Other stakeholder
Abid
Hussain
ACE
Cultural sector
Israr
Hussein
Hartlepool Council
Public sector
Naomi
Hutchinson
Digital Catapult NETV / Sunderland Software City
Other stakeholder
Paul
Hyde
Whippet Up
Business
Stephen
Irving
Pineapple Black
Cultural sector
Matthew
Jarratt
North East Culture Partnership
Other stakeholder
Millie
Jenkins
Youthquake
Individual artist/freelancer
Leon
Jones
Stockton Council
Public sector
Reuben
Kench
Stockton Council
Public sector
Shahda
Khan
Borderlands CPP Project
Education
Yasmin
Khan
LEP Board
Other stakeholder
Viv
Lattimer
Stockton Council
Public sector
Jake
Loades
Tees Valley Young Creatives
Public sector
Lisa
Lovebucket
Artist, ArtsLab Teesside
Individual artist/freelancer
Lizzie
Lovejoy
ARC and as a freelance artist
Individual artist/freelancer
Dominic
Lusardi
Animmersion
Business
Christopher
Mains
Darlington Council
Public sector
Bob
Makin
SockMonkey Studios
Business
Roxy
McKenna
BFI / Film Hub North
Other stakeholder
Matt
McGough
Ithica Films
Business
Edwin
Milligan
Durham University/Creative Fuse 
Education
Neil
Mitchell
Stockton Council
Public sector
Aidan
Moesby
Freelance artist; Disconsortia
Individual artist/freelancer
Charlotte
Nicol
Middlesbrough Council
Public sector
Sharon
Paterson
Teesside University
Education
Nigel
Pearson
Sunderland University
Education
Cara
Pringle
Festival of Thrift
Cultural sector
Gemma
Ptak
Hartlepool Council
Public sector
Bethanie
Pullen
Youthquake
Individual artist/freelancer
Martin
Raby
Northern School of Art
Education
Graham
Ramsay
Ten Feet Tall, BaseCamp
Cultural sector
Ashmita
Randhawa
Digital Catapult NETV / Sunderland Software City
Other stakeholder
Dr Bernadette
Robertson
Durham University
Education
James
Robertson
ERS
Other stakeholder
Mark
Robinson
Thinking Practice
Business
Lynsey
Robinson
Digital City
Education
Lesley-Ann
Rose
Filmmaker, Teesside University Animation dept
Education
Folasade (Sade)
Sangowawa
Cultures CIC
Business
Jeremy
Shine
SIRF
Cultural sector
Josh
Siepel
Creative Industries PEC
Other stakeholder
Liam
Slevin
Middlesbrough Art Weekender/The Auxiliary
Cultural sector
Toby
Smith
Global Streets
Cultural sector
Lyndsey
Stephenson
Stellar Projects
Cultural sector
Amy 
Swalwell
Dance in Middlesbrough 
Cultural sector
Jane
Tarr
ACE North
Other stakeholder
Heather
Tarran-Jones
Darlington Hippodrome
Public sector
Paul
Taylor
Hartlepool Council
Public sector
Miranda
Thain
Theatre Hullabaloo
Cultural sector
Annabel
Turpin
ARC Stockton
Cultural sector
Joanna
Wake
LEP Board
Other stakeholder
John
Walker
Historic England
Other stakeholder
Karl
Ward
Newcastle University
Education
Craig
Walton
TVCA
Public sector
Tom
Watson
Teesside University
Education
Scott 
Watson
Digital City 
Education
Louise
Westbury
Redcar and Cleveland Council
Public sector
Nick John
Williams
The Living Archive
Individual artist/freelancer
Rachel
Willis
Stellar Projects
Cultural sector
Sarah
Wilson
Tracks Darlington
Cultural sector
Stephen
Wiper
Creative Darlington
Public sector
Brent
Woods
North East Film Archive
Education
Laura
Woods
Teesside University
Education
Vici
Wreford-Sinnott
Little Cog / Disconsortia
Individual artist/freelancer
Nina
Yoxall
Northern Studios
Business



APPENDIX D: Visual arts assets
Table 52  Visual arts assets
Name
Postcode
Ward
District
ARC Stockton Arts Centre
TS18 1LL
Stockton Town Centre
Stockton-on-Tees
Artsbank Art Services Limited
TS17 9JZ
Stainsby Hill
Stockton-on-Tees
Billingham Art Gallery
TS23 2LN
Billingham Central
Stockton-on-Tees
Boho Zone
TS2 1AE
Central
Middlesbrough
Bottle of Notes
TS1 2AZ
Central
Middlesbrough
Crown Street Art Gallery
DL1 1ND
Park East
Darlington
Dorman Museum
TS5 6LA
Park
Middlesbrough
East Cleveland Arts
TS12 2PD
Brotton
Redcar and Cleveland
Eston Arts Centre
TS6 9JA
Teesville
Redcar and Cleveland
Gallery TS1
TS1 1LT
Central
Middlesbrough
Gilkes Street Artists
TS1 5AP
Central
Middlesbrough
Guisborough Museum
TS14 6BA
Guisborough
Redcar and Cleveland
Hartlepool Art Gallery
TS24 7EQ
Burn Valley
Hartlepool
Hartlepool Borough Council
TS24 7AD
Burn Valley
Hartlepool
Hartlepool Community Studio
TS24 7HQ
Burn Valley
Hartlepool
Head of Steam
DL3 6ST
Northgate
Darlington
Heugh Gun Battery Museum
TS24 0PS
Headland & Harbour
Hartlepool
Hunt Cliff
TS12
Saltburn
Redcar and Cleveland
Kirkleatham Old Hall Museum
TS10 5NW
Kirkleatham
Redcar and Cleveland
Lingfield Point
DL1 1RW
Red Hall & Lingfield
Darlington
Marine Parade
TS12 1DP
Saltburn
Redcar and Cleveland
Middlesbrough Art Gallery
TS1 4AP
Newport
Middlesbrough
Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art
TS1 2AZ
Central
Middlesbrough
Museum of Hartlepool
TS24 0XZ
Headland & Harbour
Hartlepool
Ormesby Hall
TS3 0SR
Ormesby
Redcar and Cleveland
Palace Arts Gallery and Nexus
TS10 3AE
Coatham
Redcar and Cleveland
Pineapple Black CIC
TS1 1SU
Central
Middlesbrough
Preston Park Museum & Grounds
TS18 3RH
Eaglescliffe
Stockton-on-Tees
Redcar Esplanade
TS10 1DD
Coatham
Redcar and Cleveland
Redcar Library
TS10 1RE
Coatham
Redcar and Cleveland
Resilience

Kirkleatham
Redcar and Cleveland
Saabat Gallery CIC
TS6 6SA
South Bank
Redcar and Cleveland
Saltburn Studios and Gallery
TS12 1QG
Saltburn
Redcar and Cleveland
Spectra-txt
TS1 1LE
Central
Middlesbrough
Studio 109
TS1 2DU
Central
Middlesbrough
Teesside Archive
TS1 1DB
Central
Middlesbrough
The Art House
TS5 6AB
Park
Middlesbrough
The Auxiliary Project Space CIC
TS18 1LA
Stockton Town Centre
Stockton-on-Tees
The Bridge Centre for Visual Arts
DL1 1ED
Stephenson
Darlington
The Clock Gallery
TS10 3DR
Coatham
Redcar and Cleveland
The Dorman Museum
TS5 6LA
Park
Middlesbrough
The Heritage Gallery at Cargo Fleet
TS6 6XH
South Bank
Redcar and Cleveland
The Hippodrome
DL1 1RR
Park East
Darlington
The House of Blah Blah
TS1 1DB
Central
Middlesbrough
The Hub and Beacon
TS10 3AE
Coatham
Redcar and Cleveland
The Middlesbrough Empire 2008 ltd
TS1 2RT
Central
Middlesbrough
The Python Gallery
TS2 1BB
Central
Middlesbrough
West Row Arts
TS18 1EF
Stockton Town Centre
Stockton-on-Tees
Yarm Originals
TS16 9HY
Eaglescliffe
Stockton-on-Tees
Zetland Lifeboat Museum and Redcar Heritage Centre
TS10 3AH
Coatham
Redcar and Cleveland


APPENDIX E: Social & impact investing
What is social & impact investing?
“Impact investments are investments made with the intention to generate positive, measurable social and environmental impact alongside a financial return. Impact investments can be made in both emerging and developed markets and target a range of returns from below market to market rate, depending on investors' strategic goals. 
The growing impact investment market provides capital to address the world’s most pressing challenges in sectors such as sustainable agriculture, renewable energy, conservation, microfinance, and affordable and accessible basic services including housing, healthcare, and education. “
For more on the core characteristics of impact investing see here. 
Impact investing often combines a mixture of grant funding with debt and equity investment. The mix will depend on factors such as:
	•	Whether the provider of funds requires a financial ROI, can accommodate some diminution in capital or see the monies as non-returnable
	•	The extent to which it is necessary to fund start up and early-stage activities vs. later stage/mature businesses/organisations
	•	The mix of legal types from charities to companies limited by share and the capacity of these to use grants, repay debt or offer equity
	•	The level of development of the sector/geography in terms of use of non-grant-based forms of finance
There are various other forms of funding social enterprise such as the Social Impact Bonds. We are not covering them here and are sticking to a narrower definition of social investment. 
Who are the key players in the UK and how do they relate to each other?
Social & impact investing has been around since the early 2000’s. 
There are a couple of key wholesalers of funds responsible for distribution of public funds – Social Investment Business and Big Society Capital. These organisations not only manage the distribution of monies to an assortment of delivery organisations such as KeyFund and Big Society Capital but also undertake a variety of sector development and research activities. One key source of new monies into the system is the transfer of capital from dormant or unclaimed bank accounts. In more recent years a number of private trusts & foundations have provided capital to social investment funds and a market is slowly developing whereby fund managers such as KeyFund will bid to manage a set of funds from e.g., Esmee Fairbairn with an agreed rate of return or rate of loss.  
Social investors such as Keyfund will run a portfolio of investments and manage the combination of grant funds, debt and equity investment that is offered to any individual organisation. They will also track the repayment and manage the risk once an investment is made. Typically, each fund operated will have slightly different criteria so reporting to Social Investment Business for the funds under management will be different to reporting to Power to Change re their funds under management. 
The cost of operating investment funds may be covered in part at least through relationships with other stakeholders who have an interest in the development of economic growth in deprived or hard to reach communities. Power to Change is one example of a funder which has a remit to support the growth and development of Community Businesses and one of their strands of activity is to cover a proportion of the costs of operating a social investment fund in the Community Business sector. Lottery has also been involved in subsidising running costs of a fund in this manner. 
These investment funds are run in structurally similar ways to more commercially oriented funds such as NorthStar Ventures albeit with lower expectations of a financial return and a focus on social enterprise and the third sector. 
Is there any impact investing in the Creative & Cultural space?
The West Midlands has a considerable track record in the development and delivery of creative industries specific investment. The Creative Advantage fund was the first of its type. The Creative Scale Up fund run by WMCA is a relevant comparator for TVCA. The work of NorthStar based in Newcastle also ran creative industries specific funds in the late 2000’s. 
In addition to these Creative Industries specialist funds which focus on commercial opportunities there are a number of interventions emanating from the social investment space. The most well-known is probably the Arts Impact Fund. These tend to be more patient capital where the fund as a whole can accommodate a degree of reduction in value of capital over a 5–10-year period. 
There are also a series of initiatives designed to meet the needs of earlier stage creative companies and the non-profit cultural sector which are delivered by cultural organisations. Creative United has run a number of these over the years ranging from a collaboration with the Centre for Fashion Enterprise to support nascent fashion businesses to a business support programme with a connection to KeyFund. This latter programme was funded by the Lottery. Creative United has connections to Social Investment Business and Big Society Capital as well as a wider list of social investors. 

APPENDIX F: References
Arts/culture (including audience data)
Covid participation monitor
https://www.theaudienceagency.org/evidence/covid-19-cultural-participation-monitor
https://www.theaudienceagency.org/evidence/covid-19-cultural-participation-monitor/wave-4-key-insights
https://www.theaudienceagency.org/evidence/covid-19-culturalparticipation-monitor/first-findings-from-the-cultural-participation-monitor-wave-3 
 The Audience Agency (September 2020) TVCA: Cultural engagement/situational analysis. 
Centre for Economics and Business Research (Cebr) (2020), Contribution of the arts and culture industry to the UK economy: A CEBR report for Arts Council England, May 2020, pp. 9-11. 
https://www.artscouncil.org.uk/sites/default/files/download-file/CEBR%20Main%20Report%20Contribution%20of%20the%20arts%20and%20culture%20industry%20to%20the%20UK%20economy_0.pdf
TVCA (2019). Culture and Visitor Sector Analysis and Baseline Insights
Mazzarella, Francesco and Schuster, Anna (2021) CUT. Project Report. University of the Arts London, London.
Mazzarella, Francesco (2020) Making for Change: Waltham Forest. Project Report. University of the Arts London, London
Centre for Economics and Business Research (Cebr) (2020), The impact of the Cultural Recovery Fund on the Arts and Culture sector, a report for Arts Council England. Available at https://www.artscouncil.org.uk/publication/impact-culture-recovery-fund-arts-and-culture-sector 
Greater Manchester Combined Authority (GMCA) (2021). The future of the creative economy in the north of England: A spotlight on Greater Manchester. Report 2021 

Creative industries (including digital and music)
Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (2021) Government response to the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee report on the future of UK music festivals, CP 511, (HMSO, 2021) available at www.gov.uk/official-documents
Grant, A, with Manning, C, & Thurman, B, Digitally Kind: Bridging the gaps between digital policy, process and practice to improve outcomes. Carnegie UK Trust (2021)
Creative Industries Council, Creative Industries: A toolkit for cities and regions, (2021), pp. 2, 14-16.
UK Board of Trade (November 2021). Digital Trade.
 https://creativeindustriesclusters.com/
https://teesmusicalliance.org.uk/
Place (inc. heritage)
Heritage 
Heritage England, Heritage: The Foundation of Success, p. 1. https://historicengland.org.uk/content/docs/planning/heritage-foundation-for-success/ 
English Heritage, Impact of Historic Environment Regeneration, 2010, p. 3. https://historicengland.org.uk/content/heritage-counts/pub/Impact-HE-Regeneration
Other literature:
AMION Consulting and Locum Consulting (2010), Impact of Historic Environment Regeneration report for English Heritage (October 2010). Available at https://historicengland.org.uk/content/heritage-counts/pub/impact-he-regeneration/

Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, Connected Growth: Manual for Places, p. 47. 
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/808980/Connected_Growth_Manual.pdf). 

Local Government Association (2021) Creative places: supporting your local creative economy. https://www.local.gov.uk/publications/creative-places-supporting-your-local-creative-economy

On the North West coast, the Morecambe Bay Curriculum is a programme “rooted in the unique place where we live” which provides a model for a joined-up approach across Tees Valley. https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/arts-and-social-sciences/engagement/morecambe-bay-curriculum/

Lake District
Mills, P, and Barnett, M. Great Place: lakes and dales. The Audience Agency (2018) https://www.lakesanddales.org/wp-content/uploads/Great-Place-Lakes-and-Dales-research-highlights.pdf

Middlesbrough
https://www.middlesbrough.gov.uk/
Middlesbrough Settlement: A Great Place Tees Valley Project  https://teesvalley-ca.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/GPTV-Mbro-Settlement-Case-Study.pdf#:~:text=The%20Middlesbrough%20Settlement%20was%20a%20resident%20led%20programme,support%20community%20empowerment%20and%20build%20towards%20social%20activism

South Yorkshire
Chamberlain, P, Morris, D, and Coles, Dr G, Unlocking the potential of culture, arts and heritage in South Yorkshire: a report to the four South Yorkshire local authorities and Sheffield City Region, Chamberlain Walker (July 2020)

Tees Valley
https://www.enjoyteesvalley.com/
Teesworks Heritage  https://www.teesworks.co.uk/about/teesworks-heritage-task-force
Festivals and events
Ramage, J. Festivals and events forward planning for the North East: A draft report to One NorthEast, SQW Consulting (2007)
Tees Valley Festivals 2021 Recovery Fund                                                           https://www.teesvalleybusiness.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Festivals-Recovery-Fund-2021-3.pdf

TVCA Festivals & Events
Animex
An international festival of animation, VFX and games  https://animex.tees.ac.uk/
The Festivals Network 
Formed during Lockdown by Stellar Projects as a self-help support initiative.
The Festival of Thrift
The Festival of Thrift adapted to virtual and then part-virtual delivery in 2020 and 2021 respectively, increasing audience while managing a £50K loss of funding.
Festival of Thrift: Fuze Metrics Report 2018. Fuze Research Ltd (2018)
Festival of Thrift Annual Report 2019. Festival of Thrift (2020). Available at https://www.festivalofthrift.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/fot-annual-report-2020-final-tp_compressed.pdf
Festival of Thrift Annual Report 2020-2021. Festival of Thrift (2021). Available at https://www.festivalofthrift.co.uk/annual-report/
Middlesbrough Mela
The North East’s biggest multicultural festival https://middlesbroughmela.co.uk/
Middlesbrough Art Weekender - https://middlesbroughartweekender.com/
Programme available here -https://issuu.com/middlesbroughartweekender/docs/maw21_programme_2021_24_sep
Nightfall
Nightfall 2019 summary. Stellar Projects (2019)
Stockton International River Festival
https://sirf.co.uk/

OTHER
Root 1066
Root 1066: A festival of contemporary arts 3 Sept – 16 Oct 2016 
https://www.hastings.gov.uk/content/arts_culture/pdfs/root_1066_festbrochure
Without Walls
For an example of commendable structure and approach - Without Walls is a consortium of festivals and organisations dedicated to leading excellence in UK outdoor arts - https://www.withoutwalls.uk.com/

Screen industries
BFI The Future of Film in the Wider World: Presentations from a BFI insights conference 
https://www.bfi.org.uk/industry-data-insights/reports/bfi-insight-exchange-2030-vision

BFI Film, high-end TV and animation production in the UK: Official figures for spend in 3 months up to Dec 2020.
https://www.bfi.org.uk/news/bfi-official-2020-statistics

Creative and Cultural Skills: Building a Creative Nation
https://www.ccskills.org.uk/articles/building-a-creative-nation-the-next-decade

Creative and Cultural Skills: Workforce Analysis
https://www.ccskills.org.uk/knowledge-centre/workforce-analysis
Creative Industries Council (2020) TV & Film: Why The UK? https://www.thecreativeindustries.co.uk/site-content/industries-tv-film-tv-film-why-the-uk
Creative UK Group, The UK Creative Industries report 2021: Unleashing the power and potential of creativity (2021)
https://wearecreative.uk 
Deloitte, Tech Trends 2021: Lead with confidence. 
Deloitte’s 12th annual Tech Trends report provides insights and inspiration for the digital journey ahead
https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/focus/tech-trends.html
Northern film and Media/Tees Valley Screen  https://northernmedia.org/project/tees-valley-screen/
OFCOM (2021), Media Nations 2021
https://www.ofcom.org.uk/research-and-data/tv-radio-and-on-demand/media-nations-reports/media-nations-2021
Oliver and Ohlbaum Associates (2018), The contribution of the UK-based film, TV and TV-related industries to the UK economy, and growth prospects to 2025
https://www.mpa-emea.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/OO-UK-AV-sector-economic-contribution-report-FINAL-2018.09.21.pdf
Oliver and Ohlbaum Associates (2020), UK Television Census, October 2020. Report for PACT
https://www.oando.co.uk/insight/pact-uk-television-census-2020
Oliver & Ohlbaum Associates (2021), UK Television Production Survey: Financial Census 2021 – Nations & Regions Annex. Report for PACT, (2021). 
Ozimek, A, Equality Diversity and Inclusion in the Screen Industries, Research Report, University of York (2020)
https://screen-network.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/Equality-Diversity-and-Inclusion-in-the-Screen-Industries.pdf
Ozimek, A, Skills Shortages, Gaps and Training Needs in the screen industries in Yorkshire and the Humber, scoping report, Screen Industries Growth Network (2021)
https://screen-network.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/Skills-shortages-gaps-and-training-needs-in-the-screen-industries-in-YH-report-January-2021.pdf
Rouverol, A, and Stockley-Patel, S, Aspect: Beyond the Academy. Improving Creative Industries - HEI engagement (September 2021)
http://aspect.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Improving-HEI-Engagement-Report-v4i-1.pdf

ScreenSkills Assessment 2021: A snapshot of skills issues affecting the UK screen industries during the period from January 2020 to January 2021

ScreenSkills: CPD Strategy for the UK Screen Industries 
https://www.screenskills.com/developing-your-career/continuing-professional-development/our-cpd-strategy/

Business support and skills
Arts Council England Let’s Create Delivery Plan 2021-2024. Available at https://www.artscouncil.org.uk/lets-create/delivery-plan-2021-2024
Arts Council England (2021), Let’s Create, Strategy 2020-2030, p37.  https://www.artscouncil.org.uk/sites/default/files/download-file/Strategy%202020_2030%20Arts%20Council%20England.pdf
Stockton ARC helps 2020/21 graduates and college leavers build a successful freelance career… https://arconline.co.uk/take-part/for-artists/tees-valley-young-creatives/
Tees Valley Combined Authority (2021). Business Activity: Total Business Enterprises per 10,000 adult population: 2021. Available at  https://teesvalley-ca.gov.uk/InstantAtlas/Tees_Valley_Data_Insights/atlas.html accessed 26/06/2021
UK Business register and employment survey (BRES). Available at https://www.gov.uk/search/all?keywords=UK+business+register+and+employment+survey&order=relevance

Local investment plans
Hartlepool Borough Council, Economic Growth Strategy, 2019-21
Hartlepool Borough Council, A Heritage Strategy for Hartlepool Headland, 2020-2030: An audit of potential and opportunity. Available at https://www.hartlepool.gov.uk/downloads/file/6233/part_1
Hartlepool Town Deal Board, The Hartlepool Investment Plan: Part One. January 2021 available at https://www.hartlepool.gov.uk/downloads/file/6770/hartlepool_town_investment_plan_-_public_version
Heritage Action Zones: https://historicengland.org.uk/services-skills/heritage-action-zones/#schemes
Tees Valley Foundation - Grant making body for groups and individuals who are vested in providing services and resources for their communities  https://teesvalleyfoundation.org/
Tees Valley Combined Authority Destination Management Plan Framework baseline report. Blue Sail (September 2021)
TVCA Tees Valley Strategic Economic Plan: The Industrial Strategy for Tees Valley 2016-2026. https://teesvalley-ca.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/TVCA207-SEP-Document-Full-WEB.pdf
HM Treasury, Ministry of Housing, Communities & Local Government, Department for Transport Levelling Up Fund: Prospectus, Crown Copyright (2021). Available at https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/966138/Levelling_Up_prospectus.pdf

Covid-19
House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee Impact of COVID-19 on DCMS sectors: First Report. Third report of session 2019-21. House of Commons (23 July 2020) https://committees.parliament.uk/publications/2022/documents/19516/default/
is this the right one? – “One third (35%....) 
Sport England (2020) Active Lives Adult Survey: May 2019/20 Report, (October 2020) 
is this the right place? 

Equality, diversity and inclusion
Brook, O, O'Brien, D and Taylor, M, Panic! Social Class, Taste and Inequalities in the Creative Industries. Available at https://createlondon.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/Panic-Social-Class-Taste-and-Inequalities-in-the-Creative-Industries1.pdf
Panic! 2018 is a research project led by sociologists from the Universities of Edinburgh and Sheffield that investigates inequalities in the cultural workforce https://createlondon.org/event/panic-paper/ 
Brook, O, O'Brien, D and Taylor, M, Culture is bad for you, Manchester University Press (2020)
Inequality in the cultural and creative industries
“Offering a powerful call to transform the cultural and creative industries, Culture is bad for you examines the intersections between race, class, and gender in the mechanisms of exclusion in cultural occupations.”
https://manchesteruniversitypress.co.uk/9781526144164/ 
Friedman, S and Laurison, D, The Class Ceiling: Why it Pays to be Privileged, Policy Press, (2019)
https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B07HJ4JW1M/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1 
“The class pay gap: why it pays to be privileged. Within Britain’s elite occupations, the advantages of class are still mistaken for talent.”
https://www.theguardian.com/society/2019/feb/07/the-class-pay-gap-why-it-pays-to-be-privileged 

Arts Council England Investment Principles
“Inclusivity & Relevance is about ensuring the creative and cultural sector better reflects and serves all communities across England. It is a commitment to achieving greater fairness, access and opportunity.” 
https://www.artscouncil.org.uk/lets-create/explore-investment-principles
Arts Council England Diversity report
ACE measures progress by collecting, analysing and reporting on data relating to equality and diversity of the work, organisations and projects that they fund.
https://www.artscouncil.org.uk/our-data/diversity-data
Jerwood Arts
A toolkit by Jerwood Arts and the Bridge Group gives a guide for employers, outlining how to take practical steps to change their organisational cultures to attract and retain a more socio-economically diverse workforce. 
https://www.culturehive.co.uk/resources/toolkit-socio-economic-diversity-and-inclusion-in-the-arts/
Inc Arts 
A Year of Anti-Racist Action (Jun 2021)
“In May 2021, Inc Arts sent out a survey to 100 Arts Council England (ACE) National Portfolio organisations (NPOs), and the 16 organisations directly funded by the Department of Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS).)” https://incarts.uk/incarts-research 
We Shall Not Be Removed
“Seven Inclusive Principles for Arts & Cultural Organisations working safely through COVID-19 is designed to complement the suite of guidance documents already issued by UK Governments and sector support organisations.”
https://www.weshallnotberemoved.com/7-principles/ 
Centre for Cultural Value
Impact of Covid -19 - national research project exploring the impacts of Covid-19 on the UK cultural sector. In collaboration with The Audience Agency, the Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre and a national consortium of academic researchers.
https://www.culturalvalue.org.uk/the-team/covid-19-research-project/ 
https://www.culturehive.co.uk/CVIresources/inequality-through-covid-findings-from-the-second-wave-of-the-covid-19-participation-monitor/ 
https://www.culturehive.co.uk/CVIresources/webinar-covid-19-the-great-unequaliser/ 
https://www.culturehive.co.uk/CVIresources/covid-19-and-the-global-cultural-and-creative-sector/ 
BFI 
Inclusion in the film industry. Encouraging equality of opportunity and addressing under-representation in the screen industries.
https://www.bfi.org.uk/inclusion-film-industry
Historic England 
Heritage should be for everyone
https://historicengland.org.uk/about/who-we-are/heritage-belongs-to-everyone/
National Trust- Colonial Countryside
“Country houses and empire -British country houses were influential centres of colonial wealth and bureaucracy. As historians take new approaches to British imperial history, utilising recent resources like the Legacies of British Slave-Ownership database, less familiar and often newly discovered colonial stories of our places are being uncovered.”
https://www.nationaltrust.org.uk/features/colonial-countryside-project 
Creative Industries Federation and Creative England (Creative UK)
“The UK Creative Industries is the first report of its kind, exploring the power and potential of the UK’s creative industries to regenerate places, rebuild the economy, drive innovation and create jobs in all parts of the UK”
https://wearecreative.uk/ 
Creative Diversity APPG
To identify and tackle obstacles to diversity and inclusion in the creative sector, establish effective practices in recruiting, retaining and developing diverse talent and provide recommendations for industry and government.
https://www.kcl.ac.uk/cultural/projects/creative-majority 
Creative and Cultural Skills: Workforce Analysis
“Compares the characteristics of the arts and cultural workforce with the total UK workforce at national, country and regional levels, for the first time since 2012.”
https://www.ccskills.org.uk/knowledge-centre/workforce-analysis 
Policy and Evidence Centre
“This evidence review outlines the most pressing skills and diversity challenges facing the creative industries, identifies critical gaps in the evidence base, and seeks to shape a shared and dynamic research agenda.”
https://www.pec.ac.uk/discussion-papers/skills-talent-and-diversity-in-the-creative-industries 
Carnegie UK
“Carnegie UK ran a series of online conversations about Rethinking Scotland during the winter of 2020/21. to open up policy making to more diverse voices, and to move from consulting to sharing power with citizens and communities.”
https://www.carnegieuktrust.org.uk/publications/rethinking-scotland-action-required-to-include-more-voices-in-policy-making-in-scotland/


