South Yorkshire ARG evaluation









April 2024

















Contents

Executive summary	1
Additional Restrictions Grant	1
Our approach to evaluation	1
1.  ARG project delivery	2
Background	2
Alignment to UK Shared Prosperity Fund (SPF) principles	2
Project design	2
2. Quantitative findings	4
2.1	Applications	4
2.2	Awards	4
2.3	Project management fees	4
2.4	Match funding	4
2.5	Financial performance	5
3. Qualitative findings	7
3.1	Barnsley	7
3.2	Doncaster	9
3.3	Rotherham	11
3.4	Sheffield	15
Appendices – detailed project case studies	17


Executive summary
Additional Restrictions Grant 
The Additional Restrictions Grant (ARG) was a discretionary fund introduced by the UK government in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. It was designed to provide financial support to businesses that were severely impacted by the restrictions imposed to control the spread of the virus. The grant allowed local authorities to determine the eligibility criteria and distribution of funds based on the specific needs of their local businesses, which made it possible to address the needs of cultural organisations and creative businesses which were not legally required to close but did not qualify for other government support schemes such as the Local Restrictions Support Grant (LRSG).
In September 2021, Dan Jarvis, the then-mayor of South Yorkshire Mayoral Combined Authority, announced that £1m of ARG funding would be distributed to arts, culture and heritage sectors in South Yorkshire via The Mayor’s Fund. This was in addition to £45m of support for businesses already granted. The amount awarded to each local authority reflected previous levels of restrictions support:
	•	Barnsley: £70,000
	•	Doncaster: £450,000
	•	Rotherham: £150,000
	•	Sheffield: £280,000
The balance of the funding (£50,000, or 5%) was retained by SYMCA to cover overheads.
Each local authority was given flexibility to tailor the scheme to their local circumstances. This resulted in a different mix of micro grants for businesses and commissioning of cultural events, activities or projects in each place.
Our approach to evaluation
Our approach to evaluation changed in response to feedback from both SYMCA and local authority partners. An initial review of the quantitative data resulted in a consensus that:
There was no baseline from which to measure added economic impact of the ARG investment.
The ARG intervention had been determined and launched at short notice and did not have a business case based in existing SYMCA strategy for economic development of Culture, Arts & Heritage sectors. It was therefore seen to be inappropriate to measure the success of the project in solely quantitative terms.
Local authority partners were not involved in co-design of the initiative and each took a different approach to allocation and management of funding. However, over the course of delivery, the project had promoted new and collaborative approaches with sector organisations, between local authorities and SYMCA.
At that point it was agreed that an exploration of those qualitative and collaborative outcomes, and a sense of their potential legacy, was the most important goal of evaluation. This is reflected in the description of different modes of engagement with Cultural, Arts & Heritage sector organisations and responses from local authority culture leads in the Qualitative Findings section.

1.  ARG project delivery 
Background
The South Yorkshire Mayoral Combined Authority wants to understand the impact that the ARG fund has had on arts, culture and heritage organisations and to identify any lessons and recommendations that should be applied to future support programmes in these and adjacent sectors of the creative industries.
This contract is part of a suite of work that the Authority undertook on the arts, creative, cultural and heritage sectors between 2021 and 2023, and will inform the Mayor, South Yorkshire Mayoral Combined Authority Board, South Yorkshire Local Enterprise Partnership and partners and stakeholders in design of future measures to boost the current and potential economic contribution of the sectors.     
Alignment to UK Shared Prosperity Fund (SPF) principles 
The South Yorkshire SPF principles are:
Strategically aligned regional approach.
Lock in local responsiveness and delivery flexibility.
Collaborative implementation. 
Devolved local delivery: including the presumption that the majority of funding will be commissioned at the local level.
Leverage regional advantages: The MCA will only act to add value. 
Intelligent and effective deployment.
Project design at SYMCA and the local authorities’ subsequent decisions about allocation of funding strongly reflected these principles.
Project design
This section details the processes and decisions for allocating and administering the funding in South Yorkshire (by national Government, the MCA and delivery partners). 
An analysis of the programme’s design, including its breadth and delivery mechanisms and an opinion on which aspects of the programme’s design should be replicated in future programmes.
Barnsley 
Barnsley distributed £37,500 in small grants of £1,500 to each of 25 businesses – ‘Bounceback’ funding – and commissioned six cultural projects to a total value of £28,000.
Doncaster
Doncaster divided its grants into ‘micro’, ‘mid’ and ‘large’ grants, reflecting project size rather than the size of the recipient organisation.
Rotherham 
Rotherham identified three strands of funding:
£85,000 divided between three large projects
A contribution of £30,000 out of a total £74,500 in grants of up to £10,000k for a cultural events programme, RELOAD
£20k for small (£1k) grants for other cultural projects
Other residencies and commissions
Contribution to Fanzone activities for Euro 2022
Sheffield 
£120k of Mayor’s Fund monies were added to an existing (£100k) Freelancer Fund and distributed in the form of small grants. This created some issues of attribution, as the records of expenditure we have do not differentiate between Freelancer Funds 1 and 2.
Four organisations – Theatre Deli (performing arts), Sensoria (film and television), The Leadmill (live music) and Off The Shelf (publishing) – each received £40k to redistribute in grants within specific creative sectors.

2. Quantitative findings
2.1	Applications
We have incomplete details of applicants and applications, but the returns provided by local authority partners and other distributors show 437 applications across all four cities and towns. Total value of applications made was £1,636,149.
45 applications totalling £86,500 in Barnsley (although we have no details of whether there were any unsuccessful applicants for the six larger commissions).
39 applications totalling £664,521 in Doncaster.
73 applications totalling £313,236 in Rotherham, plus three large commissions totalling £85,000.
277 applications totalling £676,732 in Sheffield (although this includes all applicants for FF1 and FF2, and we have only evidence of awards from The Leadmill).
2.2	Awards
The Mayor’s Fund resulted in 272 awards to arts, cultural and heritage organisations and individuals to a total value of £929,730. 
Barnsley: six commissions totalling £28,000 and 25 awards of £1,500 each to individuals and organisations.
Doncaster: £451,000 (£1k over budget) distributed between micro-enterprises and SMEs as follows:
12 large grants totalling £359,273 (80% of the total, grants between £15k and £40k)
Six mid-size grants totalling £58,229 (13%, grants between £8.65k and £10k)
Seven micro grants totalling £33,498 (7%, grants up to £5k)
Rotherham: 46 individual awards totalling £150,620 – this included £10,420 for fanzone activation for the 2022 Euros, £85,000 for three larger projects (Rotherham Civic Theatre, Wentworth Woodhouse and Linger Longer Lane), which together benefitted  18 individual artists and 19 awards of £1,000 to individual artists.
Sheffield: 170 awards for a total of £362,610, of which £262,610 was contributed by the Mayor’s Fund.
2.3	Project management fees
Local authorities and other distributors accounted for £12,990 in project management and assessment fees – 1.4% of total funds disbursed. A further £5,340 was spent on marketing and publicity for Sheffield’s local music trails. 
Barnsley did not provide evidence for £4,500 of its £70,000 allocation. 
Projects in Doncaster (£1,000) and Rotherham (£1,620) went over their allocated funding. 
2.4	Match funding
There was no consistent reporting of either public or private sector match funding. Rotherham contributed £44,500 of other funding (source unknown) toward the costs of its RELOAD programme and Sheffield contributed £100,000 of other ARG support to its Freelancers Fund. 
 2.5	Financial performance
We have limited information on the financial outturn of the programme. We are only able to find evidence of financial performance for companies (including registered charities and Community Interest Companies), not for non-registered partnerships and self-employed individuals. 59 organisations were in receipt of ARG funds (out of a total of 272 awards).

Table 1 Analysis of financial outturns

Companies funded
Total funding (£)
No. of employees
Change in no. of employees
 Net assets - latest accounts (£) 
 Change in net assets (£) 
 Change in net assets - funding (£) 
 Companies dissolved 
Barnsley BBCDF
10
15,000
8
-2
21,307 
(11,956)
(26,956)
1
Doncaster
16
357,975
51
-4
2,619,448 
173,042 
(184,933)
2
Rotherham
11
18,340
124
25
2,606,849 
857,224 
838,884 
0
Sensoria
6
16,950
6
0
35,741 
16,513 
(437)
2
Music Trails
6
8,640
21
-9
63,121 
(13,659)
(22,299)
0
Theatre Deli
8
30,604
366
2
231,281 
(70,975)
(101,579)
1
Total
57
447,509
576
12
5,577,747 
950,189 
502,680 
6
The Fifth Sector 2023
Notes on method
Neither organisations nor individuals were asked to submit details of their financial situation as part of their application; nor was any form of financial reporting mandated in funding agreements provided by the local authorities. 
We are unable to access financial records for individuals in receipt of grant funding. With very few exceptions, the organisations in receipt of awards are required to submit only abbreviated or summary annual accounts, which do not include details of turnover.
We therefore chose to analyse change in net assets of registered companies, CICs and charities as a proxy for impact of the grant award. Using Beauhurst as a data source, this was measured between the latest financial year for which the organisation had submitted a return (in most cases, 2022) and the previous year.
We were unable to find full details of employee numbers for about 20% of the organisations – reflecting the fact that many of them have a sole director and no employees. 
We excluded Doncaster Culture and Leisure Trust and The Leadmill from our analysis, as their scale would have distorted the results. 
We were unable to analyse Barnsley’s artistic commissions, Sheffield’s Freelancer Fund 2 and Off The Shelf programmes as we were only provided with names of individual recipients, not any company details. 
Performance of the local authorities and contracted delivery organisations
	•	Rotherham’s programme was the only one to show a net positive financial outcome – in other words, where the change in net assets of grant recipients was greater than the amount of funding awarded plus the change in net assets. However, this result was skewed by the contribution of Grimm & Co, which was responsible for the Children’s Capital of Culture. Without its increase in net assets, the Rotherham programme would also have shown that 
	•	Doncaster Culture & Leisure Trust (DCLT) showed a change in net assets of £1.44m in the year in which it received a grant of £28k – but we do not have a record of whether DCLT received any other government support which contributed to that outcome.
	•	The Leadmill showed a change in net assets of £469k and was in receipt of £4k of grant funding plus £4.5k for overheads of managing the Music Trails fund.
	•	It is worth noting that had Grimm & Co, which showed a net change in assets of £678k and was in receipt of £3k in grants, also been excluded from analysis, the outturn from Rotherham’s programme would still have been positive, but the change in net assets less funding for the whole programme would have been minus £175k.
	•	21 of the recipient organisations – more than a third – showed a reduction in net assets in the year in which they were in receipt of an ARG grant. 
	•	Sensoria’s fund – which invested in development of new IP in film and television – was the nearest to breakeven on that measure, even though very few (if any) of the original programmes would have been completed and distributed. 
	•	The highest proportion of recipient organisations showing a reduction in net assets was found in the Theatre Deli programme – four out of the eight – emphasising the severity of the impact of lockdown on the live performance sector. 
3. Qualitative findings
Following a meeting with SYMCA and local authority partners to review initial findings, it was agreed that the most useful outcome of the evaluation was to reflect the qualitative outcomes of each local authority.
3.1	Barnsley
Approach - options assessment
	•	ARG funding allowed Barnsley Council to further develop a project – The Un-Naturalists (see below) beyond its original reach.
	•	It supported a number of small creative businesses (technical and creative support to Markmark Productions along with the actors themselves).
	•	ARG was responsive to the needs of the project, as this was a street theatre performance that didn’t need venue booking and in some ways created its own publicity on the day (although social media marketing was used too).
	•	ARG allowed Barnsley to pilot the approach and has used the evidence of success to justify promoting a ‘summer tour’ of the performances to reach a wider audience (it was cold when it was first delivered).
Specifically, ARG funding allowed the Council to commission an archivist to work alongside the performers. This ensured that the stories were authentic and routed firmly in the town and in some cases, the living memories and experiences of the audience. This allowed the Council to expand the storytelling and reach of the show. Without ARG funding, the shows and the subsequent summer tour would not have happened.  The funding allowed the show to develop quickly after its initial form for the High Street HAZ.

Figure 1  Connecting to Barnsley 2030 outcomes










 
Outputs - The Un-Naturalists 
The Un-Naturalists was a series of street theatre performances delivered across the six principal towns of Barnsley. The programme built on an approach to cultural development already led by the Council
The Un-Naturalists show was first developed as part of Barnsley’s Eldon Street Heritage Action Zone to animate the stories of the characters who lived and worked on the historic street.  ARG funding presented an opportunity to develop this show further and pilot how it might work across the six principal towns. Barnsley’s ACE funded Cultural Development Fund’s revenue stream was delivering creative connections across the town between artists and communities whilst also offering support for artist development across the borough and ARG support helped to develop the Council’s work in this area.  
 Impact 
The show reached over 4,000 people across six shows and supported the following organisations:
	•	Markmark Productions
	•	Sheauran Tan (archivist/researcher)
	•	John Coombes (film maker)
	•	Michelle Austin, independent costumier – The Un-Naturalists
	•	Helter-Skelter Arts, costume development – The Un-Naturalists
	•	Dizzy O’Dare, props – The Un-Naturalists
	•	DQ Dance Academy, choreography – The Un-Naturalists
The funding laid the foundations for a further developed show for the summer tour which reached more people and continued to support small creative businesses. The summer tour was also supported by an archivist and film maker. Evidence from the ARG-funded work led to a change in the way in which the shows were filmed, with a much stronger focus on audience reaction and collecting their stories if they wanted to share them.
This allowed more preparation time to work more closely with community representatives to tie in with other events, including market days, as these were particularly successful and appropriate to the show. The show could develop further with additional performers and widen its focus on high streets to other key places and figures in the towns.
Legacy
An interview with Jon Finch, Head of Culture and Visitor Economy at Barnsley Council, produced reflections on both process and outcomes. 
At the outset of ARG, hasty funding allocations between authorities unaccustomed to working together had caused issues. Future collaboration and a SYMCA strategy were needed to better coordinate complementary local efforts and devolve funds strategically.
Greater coordination was critical in a climate in which small councils may struggle to run major cultural services long-term. Rather than seeing them solely as capital assets, Jon described an ambition to explore a wider role for museums in sparking sector innovation and commercialisation. Creative use of cultural venues beyond their traditional roles could see them centre community, sector networking and skills development. Joint working around ARG demonstrated how the local authorities and SYMCA could collaborate to pioneer new collaborative models, including integrated community hubs. 
Jon highlighted the opportunity for culture to play a more strategic role in Councils. He felt that Council staff saw him as a service head, not strategic lead. The experience of ARG showed that SYMCA and local authorities needed to work more closely together to build understanding of cultural roles to effectively commission and seed grassroots growth.
The sentiments about the need for cultural change and opportunities for greater collaboration were echoed in consultation with other local authority culture leads.
3.2	Doncaster
Approach
City of Doncaster Council worked with its arm’s-length Leisure Trust to determine allocation of funding. It divided this into ‘micro’, ‘mid’ and ‘large’ grants, reflecting project size rather than the size of the recipient organisation.
Outcomes
Nick Stopforth, Head of Heritage and Culture at City of Doncaster Council viewed ARG a success marked by strong impact delivered on time and to budget from a standing start. Critically, the fact that ARG was seen as a low-risk (low value / high volume) urgent approach removed often burdensome internal administrative constraints whilst requiring rapid collaboration and greater communication with external delivery partners. The successful result established greater trust and confidence in joint-working with partners at multiple levels in Doncaster services. 
In this way ARG provided a working model for Doncaster of orchestration, engagement and collaboration at all levels of service, planning, resourcing and delivery: site and place specific, local, regional, sub-national (exemplified by joint working between NLHF and ACE NPO working ) and National bodies.
City of Doncaster Council was able to use the funding to strengthen the operation of the Leisure Trust and build connections between the Culture team and other parts of the Council. The challenge presented by SYMCA combined with the urgency of Covid-19 created a creative mix for service delivery and long-term learning about the pivotal role cultural services can play. This in turn established closer and better-defined working within the council and with the arms-length Leisure Trust. In Nick’s view, ARG had proved transformational for him and his leadership of cultural services in Doncaster.
Moreover, it left Doncaster Council with a better understanding of its investment priorities:
‘The next £200k that comes available we’ll know what and how to use it locally in combination with pan-regional impact and learning’.
Impacts
TRG provided the first opportunity for the Culture team and colleagues in other Council services to flexibly co-create a valued service ‘with and for’ artists. That led to a better shared understanding of user needs and demonstrated how breaking away from a typical  ‘services to’ model could work at greater scale.
Working externally with the Leisure Trust established a richer understanding by them of ‘culture’ and related services beyond the traditional transactional ‘facilities and asset management’ approach to delivery. 
Within City of Doncaster Council, the design and delivery of ARG supported service based collaboration between Business Doncaster, VisitDoncaster and the Culture team and focused role of the Council in creating and supporting the event pipeline. The work promoted an internal discussion between Arts and Health, Integrated Care and Culture. And Economic Development colleagues about the differing needs of Culture, Arts & Heritage business and practitioners; their economic role in wider place animation and the types of public services and asset allocation that could further support them in future. Nick reflected that Economic Development’s understanding of the sector and quality of engagement had improved greatly as a result.
Legacy
Most of Doncaster’s funding for culture comes from external funders. The role of ARG in developing an evidence base was critical in helping determine the future direction of the Council’s relationships with bodies including ACE, NHLF and SYMCA’s devolved funds.
The work also pointed to the value of a unifying multi-faceted narrative for culture and its social and economic benefits in defining ‘South Yorkshire’ as a place and as a region. ARG established the principle of joint-working across the South Yorkshire region as a reality and provided new points of credibility and proven evidence for regional and national funding bodies. Establishing a shared ‘direction of travel and set of goals’ across differing administrative boundaries provided the opportunity to consider need and available mechanisms over singular council boundaries. This has already demonstrated greater pan-regional collaboration in the design of business engagement, investment and planning.
ARG provided inspiration and showed the need for local authorities and SYMCA to work together to continue to develop and share best practice research: the ARG experience helped Doncaster both identify gaps and opportunities and articulate future needs. This experience has directly led to examples of successful pan-regional collaboration, including the 2023 agreement to aggregate local services into a single Music Hub for the region, funded by ACE and backed by SYMCA. A further example came in the form of working with Sheffield and others through the Education partnership funded through SPF.



 3.3	Rotherham
Approach
Rotherham’s funding included a contribution of £30,000 toward a cultural events programme, RELOAD, a programme of live arts led by a local National Portfolio Organisation, Grimm & Co. 
RELOAD: Grimm & Co, Linger Longer Lane at The Old Town Hall, Rotherham town centre
Rotherham’s Old Town Hall in the centre of the town is an arcade of 16 retail units that have (apart from one unit) remained empty for over five years. Rotherham-based Grimm & Co, an Arts Council National Portfolio Organisation which supports children and young people aged 0 to 18 with their confidence and skills around creativity and writing, negotiated with the London-based landlord to enable us to create a pop up space for the charity to operate for 12 months. 
Linger Longer Lane was an event and exhibition with four objectives:
Revitalise and reimagine this space, enticing footfall and potential traders to the town centre;
Launch Rotherham’s Children’s Capital of Culture; 
Support artists’ recovery from the negative impacts of Covid by providing freelance opportunities and a showcase for their work;
Engage non-traditional audiences, communities and families in cultural, artistic and creative activities.  
Grimm & Co cleaned up the arcade and street then engaged artists bringing a diversity of experience and a range of artistic disciplines, following open and competitive tendering to celebrate stories using the shop windows, the street/arcade and the balconies then to host a range of workshops across the arcade and within the units to engage new audiences. The arcade hummed with music, including opera singers, harpists, brass, African drums and music, Roma singing, circus activities and much more with dancers, performers, magicians, textile arts, creative writing, book art, poster making, restoration art, story tellers, puppeteers – each interacting with the audiences, evoking an emotional, playful response from many.  
Outputs
24 local artists supported with commissions, employment and opportunities to showcase their work.  
30 workshops held by artists engaged 352 attendees.
Wider activities across the street  and engaged 850 audience members across two weeks of intensive activities 
Thousands more people attended the exhibition, installed by the artists across the whole arcade, which remained beyond the weeks of the Linger Longer Lane activities.  
A short film was produced to record the events.
Outcomes
As a direct result of this project, interest generated in this space and reimagining of the arcade as a business/retail hub every unit throughout the arcade, all 16 units were leased to retailers.  This demonstrated the need to inject more regular cultural, creative festival-type activities with resulting exhibitions that help to draw footfall, interest and build the capacity of inactive areas to reimagine and repurpose space. 
This project enabled experimentation to test an approach and explore its value both with communities and for those with a stake in Rotherham’s future.  It exceeded expectations, helped to improve the town centre’s reputation, demonstrated economic value and impact that in turn built trust and confidence from funders in Rotherham partners’ ability to bring about true change and to engage communities in quality interactive approaches that reached and engaged audiences, many of whom were experiencing theatre, dance, creative writing, song performance plus many more cultural, artistic activities as a participant or audience member for the first time.

Photography credit: Mark Ivkovic
 


Legacy
Leanne Buchan, Head of Creative Programming & Engagement at Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council, shared the opinion (expressed by other culture leads) that the regional collaboration had allowed testing of different models while learning from each other. However, lack of clarity around timelines, procurement challenges, and lack of early evaluation made management difficult.
She advocated for closer partnership across authorities to strengthen the regional impact of future programmes, jointly designing and testing models to learn from each other rather than working separately. She proposed building on the successful commissioning model by expanding partnerships to involve more cultural organisations and address needs of freelancers and small arts groups through infrastructure support embedded in projects.
Leanne linked cultural investment to stimulating creativity applicable across industries, creating a skilled workforce resilient in accessing diverse jobs, achieving broader inclusive growth than narrow industry targets could provide. She argued that the focus of future investment should be on developing creativity, not just creative industries, as that unleashed wider economic benefits; cultural projects cultivated skills applicable across sectors, fuelling inclusive growth beyond traditional industry definitions.
Evidence for this came from the Children's Capital of Culture traineeship program, which led to over 70% of trainees finding cultural or creative jobs within three months, demonstrating such programs' impact in developing skills and access to such careers.
Leanne’s comments point to another clear legacy for Rotherham, in how the ARG funding can be seen to have supported the development of Grimm & Co’s capacity, and with it the Children’s Capital of Culture. The borough has a big ambition to transform its communities through the eyes of its young people. To date the programme has attracted in excess of £3m in revenue investment and achieved: 
Supporting 75 young people employed part-time as Trainee Creative Producers, 14 of whom were care experienced.
Supported 10 Young Artists in Residence to develop creative skills in areas including music, dance, poetry and graphic design and build freelance portfolios. 
Delivered 124,029 participations by children, young people, and their parents and carers in Children’s Capital of Culture activities. 
Worked with 582 artists and organisations, 36% of which have been Rotherham based, and a further 40% were from the wider South Yorkshire region. 
Featured in 86 positive stories in media titles including ITV Calendar News, Yorkshire Post, BBC Look North, Rotherham Advertiser, Sheffield Star and BBC Radio Sheffield.
In addition to the Children’s Capital of Culture programme Rotherham Council invests £2,841,091 per year in Culture, Sport & Tourism. Rotherham was recently named as a Priority Place by Arts Council England with a target to increase financial investment into the borough over the next three years. With the recent round of National Portfolio Organisations taking Rotherham from two to three portfolio organisations saw Arts Council investment in Rotherham rise by more than 200%, helping to safeguard and increase employment in one of the fastest growing sectors in our economy.




3.4	Sheffield
Approach
Sheffield City Council had thought about appointing Screen Yorkshire as distributor of funds but reconsidered this following conversations at the Showroom event (at which the Mayor’s Fund announcement was made), which led to the conclusion that reliance on big ‘umbrella’ organisations was both a dated approach and not agile enough to address the acute precarity of freelancers and cultural organisations impacted by lockdowns. The design of the programme was amended to divide the funding into sector-specific ‘pots’ and appoint smaller and more grassroots sector organisations as delivery partners, to draw on contacts within and intelligence about specific cultural and creative supply chains.
Outcomes - Sensoria
One of the short films supported, Stop Dead, has had considerable success at film festivals in the Europe and North America: 
Fantasporto International Film Festival, Portugal
Cinequest Film and VR festival (Oscar qualifying)
Panic Fest, Kansas City, US
HARD:LINE Film Festival, Germany
Women in Horror, part of Stockholm International Fantastic Film Festival
Monsters of Film
Stop Dead was one of the short film awards made with a view to developing it into feature-length productions. It will take time for this and other productions to come to fruition; some of the short films are still in post post-production or applying for/going to festivals. Their producers will then have to raise finance for the next stage. It will take years for a feature length version to be produced. 
Other productions featured in UK festivals include:
Grief is a Shapeshifter: Flat Pack Festival Birmingham 
Institution: British Animation Festival, British Museum, London
Outcomes - Theatre Deli
The Tree of Opportunity Exhibition and Knife Crime Awareness Youth Tour – Always an Alternative (Anthony L. Olaseinde)
The Tree of Opportunity (see Appendix 2 for detailed case study) was created as part of an attempt to decrease knife crime. The exhibition focused on a sculpture constructed from 300 weapons that were prevented from reaching the streets of South Yorkshire, alongside : 
Pieces of artwork from local artists, including custom trainers, drawings and graffiti.
Letters, poems and advice from people who had been impacted by knife crime.
A portable weapon amnesty bin, graffitied to show the impact of knife crime. 
The exhibition represented a positive entry into schools to spread awareness of knife crime, which is often associated with negative feelings. The project report showed that knife crime is not taken serious enough in schools and more needed to be done, both by the schools and by other agencies working to support schools. 
A tour of schools boosted engagement with young people and helped categorise different levels of risks from knife crime, raising general awareness of knife crime and ‘soft skills’ amongst low risk groups and  encouraging schools to work together to put in place the correct support for ‘high risk’ students. 
Over 300 weapons were prevented from reaching the streets of South Yorkshire. 
The exhibition reached around 20,000 people, 17,000 of whom were students.
The tour raised £866.20 towards Always an Alternative Mobile Youth Club. 
The project identified next steps and best practice for agencies looking to work with young people and raised awareness of the importance of ‘The Young Persons Voice’ in design of future initiatives.
Impact 
Outgoing Head of Business Development, Culture at Sheffield City Council, Rebecca  Maddox, reflected that Sheffield focused ARG funding on cultural practitioners rather than creative industries. Funding was distributed through sector intermediaries which provided support and reached new groups. Working through intermediaries like Sensoria and Theatre Deli reached more diverse groups and added sector support and "hand holding" from those bodies for freelances and micro-businesses.
Support for freelancers through the freelancer fund was timely and impactful, and dividing funding into themed pots worked well, although some worked better than others.
Rebecca also felt that the ARG initiative would have benefitted from clearer outcomes and objectives at the outset. A lack of clarity on outcomes and objectives – including confusion between ‘creative industries’ and ‘cultural practitioners’ – made measurement difficult. Greater clarity would have helped measurement and evaluation. 
Legacy
Rebecca highlighted increased consultation with and collaboration between independent delivery partners in Sheffield as one of the most significant outcomes of ARG. The discussion between them, particularly about applications which ‘fell through the gaps’ in the sense that they didn’t conform to one of the identified priority sectors, influenced the thinking around the new Cultural Strategy or Sheffield (2024).  An example given was of a musical theatre production, which fell between the remit of The Leadmill and Theatre Deli. Delivery partners reflected that greater scope for joint working and flexibility in sector definitions would be of benefit in future funding rounds.
Building on this, Rebecca felt that future investment in Culture, Arts & Heritage from SYMCA should:
	•	Be used strategically as match funding (e.g., for Arts Council bids).
	•	Focus on film/screen and dance sectors specifically.
	•	Keep a sector focus for clarity and comparability.
	•	Use sector intermediaries again but mix up which ones.
	•	Support festivals and venues like Leadmill that enable wider cultural activity.


