

Contents


Pricing	1
Project resource	1
Project timeline	3
An expert and experienced team	4
Resumés	6
Our response to the brief	12
Approach and Methodology	14
Approach	14
Methodology	18

Pricing
We undertake to deliver the Expression of Interest as described below for a fee of £14,980 excluding VAT, made up of 27.5 eight-hour days (220 hours in total) of consultants’ time at an average day rate of £543 per day + VAT, delivered as shown in Project Resource, below.
This price does not include any allowance for room hire for World Café events. If there is a preference to host these events “in real life” rather than online, we hope that the CMG will be able to identify suitable spaces within the estate of the partner organisations.
If the Manchester partners are invited to submit a full bid, we will work with the Contract Management Group to deliver this for a fee of £5,000 excluding VAT, made up of 8.5 eight-hour days (68 hours in total) of consultants’ time at an average day rate of £588 per day. 
In the interests of Covid-19 security, meetings and consultation will take place online unless specified (eg, World Café events). Where there is a demand for in-person meetings or consultation, we will seek clarification from the client on expenses for event organisation, room hire and travel before incurring any costs.
Project resource
Project inception: 1 day 
Review and engagement of health partners and residents’ survey: 5.5 days
Stakeholder engagement: local politicians, influencers and arts and cultural networks: 5 days
Engagement and development of Events Commission: 3.5 days
Business growth, skills and workforce development – including skills mapping and supply chain analysis: 4.5 days
Connectivity with centres of innovation: 2.5 days
Climate change review: 1 day
Developing the EOI: 4.5 days

Table 1 Project resource allocation

Project timeline

An expert and experienced team
We have brought together a team combining the experience and expertise of The Fifth Sector with specialist input from recognised sector experts and an academic working in the field of health. Working together, our senior team brings a strong track record of enabling buy in from multiple stakeholders at all levels of government, artists, creative enterprises, cultural organisations, charities, trusts and communities. 
 The Fifth Sector is a specialist cultural, creative industries and heritage consultancy, founded in 2011, based in Liverpool and working with local and combined authorities, universities, LEPs and development agencies across England. The Fifth Sector works on an Associate model, drawing together expert, experienced and senior sector and technical specialists in a bespoke arrangement to meet the needs of each individual assignment. This gives a depth of specialist knowledge but also endows the team with experience which relates to that of key stakeholders. All Directors and Associates have worked at senior levels in one or more creative fields: Fifth Sector Director Iain Bennett and Associates Lara Ratnaraja, Lynne McCadden, Mandy Fowler and Dr Rachel Marsden combine industry experience with senior roles in one or both of the public sector and academia. (CVs for the project team members are included below.)
The core of this team has worked together consistently over the last two years. During this time, The Fifth Sector has evolved a distinctive approach combining innovative research tools and a commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion as an ongoing process within sector development, rather than as a single objective of any one programme.
We have helped places and cultural consortia in South Yorkshire, Tees Valley, Derby, Rushmoor, Wakefield, Liverpool, Manchester, Hereford, and others to negotiate a way through disruption and dismay toward an outward-looking, international, and sustainable direction for culture - one in which artists, diverse communities and a whole host of international voices hold sway, working collectively to overcome barriers to self-expression and economic independence and drawing on expertise from across the whole cultural sector to take advantage of new technology and innovative (often cooperative and social enterprise-inspired) business models.
Above all, The Fifth Sector’s work consistently convenes diverse constituents and stakeholders within a cultural ecology and wider policy context to cohere a central narrative on place. This is drawn from comparison of multiple data sources and from inclusive engagement of people. Our process aligns the assets in place – people foremost amongst those, but also cultural venues and organisations, heritage, the creative workforce, elements of the innovation system, existing strategic partnerships and relationships – to instil a (frequently lacking) narrative which centres on the capabilities and ambitions of the people in a place and to give a sense of what more could be done by working cooperatively and in an inclusive way.
Having worked with the Manchester’s Cultural Leaders Group during lockdown to advise on the formation of the new Cultural Consortium for Manchester,  we were therefore able to see the Covid initiative and understand the context from which the Recovery Plan sprang. That consultation gave us an overview of the strategic partners and drivers across the city; in particular, how strategy for art and culture relates to health, economic recovery and the identity of the city’s neighbourhoods and communities. 
Our collaborative team, uniquely, offers complementary perspectives and a breadth of expertise in the region, ranging from evaluation, academic research and policymaking; through fundraising, organisational and strategic development; to curatorial projects, arts production and consultation.  This allows us to: work to each of our strengths; see opportunities and challenges from different angles; offer clarity, insight and senior level strategic overview; to challenge assumptions and problem-solve effectively and bring understanding from a wide range of practical experience. We have a hands-on, co-working and highly engaged way of working and we aim to be supportive, creative and provide solutions through working in partnership, with a holistic approach to all that we do. 
Between us we offer experience of running major cultural institutions out of London, responsibility for setting and delivering policy for culture and creative industries in local and regional government, a practitioner / curator perspective spanning most forms of music, performance, visual and digital art, and commercial experience in film, television, theatre, design and digital media.
For this project we draw on our combined experience of engaging, consulting and convening at many scales to bring forward rigorous strategy formation, collective buy in, aspirational vision and the right governance models. Some of this individual and combined experience is highlighted above; more detailed resumés are provided below. 

Resumés
IAIN BENNETT FRSA, Director
Iain Bennett of The Fifth Sector delivers in-depth knowledge of both national and international agendas and developments around culture, creative industries, digital and creative technology , visitor economy, community health & wellbeing and learning & skills. It has developed new conceptual frameworks that enable focus, transparency, continuous improvement and rationalisation of strategy and action whilst widening participation.  
As sector leader for Digital and Creative Industries at Northwest Regional Development Agency (2006-11), he led the development of regional strategy, including design and project management of a £3.4m skills programme for the creative industries and project sponsorship of £30m of investment to support the development of MediaCityUK. He was also a Project Director for DCMS, working with cities across the UK (including Manchester and Salford) to implement digital innovation programmes valued at £80 million between 2012 and 2014.
Over the two years, Iain has directed several significant projects focusing on cultural and creative-led growth in the North of England, including:
Cultural and creative industries mapping and strategy for South Yorkshire Mayoral Combined Authority, Tees Valley Combined Authority and Kirklees. 
	•	Business planning and governance of Cultural Compacts in Derby, Rushmoor (Hampshire) and Liverpool City Region, where he also delivered a  cultural strategy for Liverpool and established the strategy and governance for the Liverpool City Region Music Board and the UNESCO City of Music Office.
	•	Developing the creative sector and workforce evidence base and business case for Creative City+, a £23m Strength in Places Fund bid around developing creative industries in Greater Manchester, led by Manchester Metropolitan University for a consortium also including the Universities of Manchester and Salford
	•	A report for Manchester Met’s new School of Digital Arts (SODA) including recommendations for the development of its Continuing Professional Development curriculum to extend equality, diversity and inclusion in Greater Manchester’s Creative, Digital and Tech sectors
	•	Developing a cultural strategy for Liverpool and a five-year business plan and governance model for a new cultural compact for Liverpool City Region
He is currently leading on evaluation of Wakefield’s Cultural Development Fund programme, having previously authored the Creative Wakefield Framework which developed a business model and governance structure for a Cultural Compact for Wakefield, including short, mid and long-term visioning and objective setting and business plans (Wakefield Council, 2019) and led on development of a creative skills programme as part of the programme.
Iain has also carried out research into frameworks for commissioning and mobilising investment in renewable energy through innovative use of underused public sector estates as part of the work of the ADEPT network of local authority environmental, planning and transport leaders, sponsored by the Department of Transport.
He initiated The Fifth Sector’s sponsorship of a PhD research programme at the University of Liverpool’s Zero Carbon Research Institute, exploring ways in which cultural venues and producers of cultural events can move toward ‘net zero’. 
Iain was the founder Director of Creative Lancashire (2005-6) and was a board member of Abandon Normal Devices (2009-11). He is a trustee of UP Projects, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, a member of the Creative Industries Council’s Clusters & Regions Working Group and sits on the Advisory Board of the School of Humanities at Royal Holloway, University of London.
LARA RATNARAJA, Associate
Lara is an Associate of The Fifth Sector. She specialises in diversity, innovation, leadership, collaboration, stakeholder management, advocacy, thought leadership and cultural policy development and implementation within the HE, cultural and digital sector. She develops and delivers projects and policy on how cultural and digital technology intersect for a number of national partners as well as programmes around leadership, resilience and business development for the arts and creative industries. She works or has worked with the University of Birmingham, Coventry University, Birmingham City University STEAMhouse and University of Salford delivering and developing projects on diversity, digital engagement and research collaborations between arts, HEIs and SMEs. Other consultancy clients include Jerwood Arts, Imagineer, The Big Draw, Film Hub and West  Midlands Screen Bureau.
She created and curates Hello Culture, a series of conferences and events that explore the intersection of digital and culture. She has run these IRL at the Lowry and The Landing with speakers from MIF, The Lowry, The Quays, Queer Media and Abandon Normal Devices. During lockdown, she delivered them online with the BBC Academy in Manchester to great acclaim due to the nature of the inclusive curation: speakers include HOME, Le Gateau Chocolat, Trans Creative, Unlimited and Cold War Steve.
Lara is well respected as a key influencer in the development of sector policy, a sought-after speaker and strategic thinker on policy, especially in diversity. She was the broker at the University of Birmingham on the AHRC Funded CATH Project (Collaborative Triple Helix) which developed 19 collaborative projects across the East and West Midlands with academics from both Birmingham and Leicester Universities, cultural organisations and digital SMEs. The research project led to long term collaborative working and investment. She subsequently became Senior Research Facilitator leveraging investment for further knowledge transfer and research collaborations between academics, cultural organisations and artists across the sector.
As Sector Development Director – Creative, Cultural and Digital, Business Link West Midlands she ran a £6 million programme for the creative, cultural and digital sector.
With Helga Henry, she co-produced RE:Present and ASTONish  leadership development programmes which supported the development of cultural leaders from diverse backgrounds so that the cultural ecology of the city better reflects its changing demographic. During lockdown they produced AD:Vantage a leadership programme that places the vantage point of d/Deaf, neurodivergent and disabled creative practitioners at the heart of leadership.
She is on the Board of Derby Theatre , Vivid Project, Coventry Biennial and the Advisory Group for  SHOUT Queer Arts Festival and the Diversity Group for the National Memorial Arboretum.  She is on the Equality Monitoring Group for Arts Council Wales, Creative UK National Council and is a Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre Industry Champion.

LYNNE McCADDEN, Associate
Lynne is a former BBC broadcast journalist with more than 20 years’ experience of advising on skills development strategies and programmes within the Creative and Cultural sectors. She will lead on the evaluation of the supply of creative skills, collating data on creative skills courses delivered across Somerset and in a wider travel to work area and analysing the offer across five supply chains spanning the breadth of the sector. This work will follow the format of analysis previously conducted for local and combined authorities in Wakefield, Kirklees, Tees Valley and South Yorkshire.
She is a former Director at Vision+Media, a public agency working on behalf of the creative and media industries in the north-west of England where she successfully developed and negotiated a sector growth plan by establishing a strong network of business and education networks to ensure clear skills pathways. She then led the resulting £6m skills development programme, aligning creative skills development with sector productivity and growth.  
She now runs her own consultancy working both nationally and internationally for a range of public and private clients mostly in the creative, cultural and media sectors specialising in advising on skills interventions. Clients include BBC, ITV, Salford University, Manchester Metropolitan University, Creative England, Wakefield Council, Calderdale Council, Greater Manchester Skills Gateway and private entities including Pearson In Practice, The White Room, the TV Skills Workshop and Creative Pioneers (for the IPA). Internationally, she managed a 2-year innovation programme working with the Malaysian state broadcaster, RTM, in Kuala Lumpur.  
She has both chaired and presented at international media conferences including at the Global Media Convention for KOCCA (Korean Creative Content Agency) in Seoul and at the Calvert Forum Creative Industries conference at Voronezh, near Moscow and has extensive national and international networks of personal and professional contacts in the creative, arts and media industries and maintains a myriad of pragmatically helpful connections in her portfolio.

 RACHEL MARSDEN, Associate
Dr Rachel Marsden (she/her/hers) is a curator, consultant, educator and arts writer with over 15 years’ experience across the arts, culture and heritage; Higher Education and academia, community and voluntary sectors from living in the UK, USA, China and Australia. She is interested in practice-based research through writing and publishing, and inclusive pedagogies through methodologies, and ethics, of care. This work is informed by her practice in arts and creative health, specifically social prescribing and disability justice. In addition, Rachel researches cultural transcultural curating and artistic practices in China and the Asia-Pacific, with a practice-led PhD in transcultural curating from the Centre for Chinese Visual Arts (CCVA) (Birmingham City University) (2009-2017). Alongside freelance curatorial and consultancy roles, she is Associate Lecturer in Practice-based Research at University of the Arts London (UAL); Sessional Teacher and Tutor on the MA Education (Online) at Keele University; Regional Champion for the Culture, Health and Wellbeing Alliance (UK); Governing Board member for China Residencies (USA), and a member of the International Association of Arts Critics (AICA). MANDY FOWLER, Associate
Mandy specialises in visual arts, heritage and diversity. Her contribution to projects led by The Fifth Sector includes:
	•	Co-design and delivery of a mentoring programme for cultural producers and freelance artists in Tees Valley Combined Authority (with Lara Ratnaraja)
	•	Stakeholder consultation and engagement with the Yorkshire Visual Arts Network as part of our mapping of cultural and creative industries in South Yorkshire
	•	Stakeholder consultation and co-design of strategy for cultural strategies and cultural compacts in Derby and Rushmoor
	•	She is currently project managing a Arts Council England-funded business transformation exercise for public arts advisory body Ixia (with Iain Bennett and Lara Ratnaraja)
She works across the publicly funded arts sector working with consortiums, sector networks, Universities, local authorities and delivering one to one mentoring with creative professionals at all stages of their careers and especially at early points in their careers and with minoritised lived experiences.  
She brings over 18 years’ experience, working with national institutions such as National Portrait Gallery, National Trust, Historic England, Canal and Rivers Trust, National Museum of Wales (Cardiff) and major Arts Council England National Portfolio Organisations including Nottingham Contemporary, Firstsite, Modern Art Oxford and Spike Island.

HANNAH BARKER
Hannah is an experienced practicing artist and arts administrator who has contributed research, proof-reading and marketing support services to The Fifth Sector projects including development of cultural strategies and compacts for Derby and Rushmoor and mapping of creative industries and music supply chains in Kirklees.
On this project she will:
Carry out desk research
Provide Administration support to the directors, including organising the World Cafés and surveys
Hannah established a family-run letterpress print & design studio in Derby in 2013 and works in a part-time capacity overseeing the day-to-day running of the studio. She is Administrator of the Derbyshire Arts Alliance and Marketing Officer for Developing Teachers, Schools & Academies (DTSA – previously Derby Teaching Schools Alliance).
She brings extensive experience of events administration; marketing & design; data management including GDPR compliance; design and print of promotional  literature; social media and e-newsletters; website content management; illustrator and print finishing (illustration, proofing, quality control, gilt edging and making handmade books).
Her qualifications include an Executive MBA module: Women in Leadership (Commendation), Nottingham Trent University, 2020 and a BA (hons) Fine Art Printmaking, University of Derby, 1994 – 1997. She holds Current Enhanced DBS status.


Our response to the brief
The Fifth Sector has brought together a team including regular Associates Lara Ratnaraja, Lynne McCadden and Mandy Fowler alongside social prescribing specialist Dr Rachel Marsden to address this opportunity. We are excited at the prospect of supporting the development of an expression of interest which articulates the policy and strategy context for Manchester’s Place Partnership project which delivers on the ‘unlock’ proposals identified in Manchester’s Covid Recovery Plan and works with health partners and local communities to capture the benefits of participation in cultural activity. Delivered through mutuality and co-operation, we will work with the Contract Management Group to create a precise, energetic and inclusive case for a Place Partnership for Manchester. We are applying for this tender as a partnership, led by The Fifth Sector with tasks allocated across our teams aligning with our particular skill base.

We recognise the scale of the opportunity and the potential for a Place Partnership project to mobilise and resource the ‘unlock’ phase of the Recovery Plan. Building on our experience of making recommendations for a new Cultural Consortium for Manchester, we have shaped our approach  to align with the principles of the Our Manchester Strategy vision.  This includes the deliberate decision to draw upon a wider team of contributors: this both helps to cover the wide scope of the brief within the limited time frame and allows us to benefit from the range of experience, expertise and specialisms in research, consultation, governance, health, business planning, climate change and leading change through diversity represented by this group, which has shared experience of addressing these problems in determining what approach to audiences and communities is appropriate in the radically changed landscape that faces arts and cultural organisations after Covid.
We recognise the need to articulate how “normal” has changed, and what adjustments partners will need to make in their thinking and practice to address this. The acceptance of the need to, “work together differently to achieve ambitious shared outcomes,” will mean that the work may uncover some potentially painful failings of existing plans and structures. The collaborative and collective approach set out in the tender – “What are the things we cannot achieve by working individually?”  - is critical to the success of any Place Partnership bid.
As well as looking to see where the Place Partnership can deliver more growth and impact, we will need to address the chronic, but known, issues of under-investment, lack of democratic accountability, structural racism and social injustice alongside new gaps and challenges which will have opened up over two years in which some people have been busier than ever before whilst others have had no work, and no prospect of work, or had the doors to engagement and participation in culture slammed in their faces.
In this, we recognise that ‘Manchester’ is not a single geography. We see a need to establish a robust, effective, and adequately resourced governance, management and delivery structure for the project, whilst assuring the porosity of any new structures to ensure that cultural institutions within the city can serve a wider population and underpin the development of the cultural ecosystem of the Greater Manchester city region. We are also aware, from previous experience, of the risk that independent and sector-led consortia can become dependent on capacity and resource from local and mayoral authorities in a way which can make them ‘hostage’ to those wider political structures and boundaries. This can in turn result in inflexibility and inertia. Manchester’s Place Partnership needs to be convened and governed in a way which allows it to exert  significant structural ‘pull’ on political structures and public resource in order to achieve its objectives, without becoming subject to policy ‘push’ which sometimes comes with resource, but also  brings increased risks to innovation and inclusivity. 
Our extensive experience of working across the North gives us a practical understanding of the wider policy and strategy context of Northern Powerhouse ambitions for cultural devolution. Repeated work with Manchester’s universities has given us insight into how best to set this work in its national and potentially international context.
Most of our work in the last two years has been closely engaged with Arts Council England as local authorities (and arts organisations looking to renew or establish their status as National Portfolio Organisations) look to deliver against the three priority outcomes and four investment principles of the Let’s Create strategy. This will help us to make relevant connection between those priorities and areas of proposed delivery.

Approach and Methodology
Approach
We take a hands-on, highly engaged approach to all our projects, offering a balance of embeddedness and critical distance. We aim to be supportive, creative and to provide solutions through working collaboratively, flexibly, pragmatically - and swiftly.  We propose to use creative, tried-and-tested data collection, engagement and strategy tools that will help project partners and stakeholders to reach swift and confident consensus and mutuality across an inclusive and diverse group of constituent, embedding practical tools and frameworks that support sustainable and effective action.
We recognise the importance of different ways of doing and seeing, recognising the need to respond to:
Demographic changes brought about by factors including inward migration
Changing patterns of work, movement and how people engage in order to make a clear step change in provision in Manchester
Differing needs of newer residents 
The need to attract new (especially younger) audiences to culture
Disruption: the COVID-19 pandemic, Black Lives Matter, climate crisis, social injustices of all kinds, demographic change and the pressure that reduced funding and a cost-of-living crisis have imposed on public services and finances and the impact that will have on cultural engagement and health and well-being.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Black Lives Matter has catalysed awareness of structural economic and social inequalities and injustices across society, including the cultural sector. This work will build on the Cultural Leaders’ Group’s demonstrated commitment to ‘Fail Again, Learn Better’ and help develop and set in action a plan for successful future change.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Black Lives Matter has catalysed awareness of structural economic and social inequalities and injustices across society, including the cultural sector. This work will build on the Cultural Leaders’ Group’s demonstrated commitment to ‘Fail Again, Learn Better’ and help develop and set in action a plan for successful future change.
This will allow us to work with the Contract Management Group to develop a Place Partnership Vision, Mission and governance structure capable of realising the 2026 Priority Objectives: 
	•	Manchester will be known for distinctive work that could only have been made in this place
	•	Manchester will be the UK’s most culturally democratic city, engaging with a much greater number and diversity of people across Greater Manchester
	•	Greater Manchester will be regarded as the city-region which values and nurtures creative talent, skills, diversity, and expression more inclusively and successively than any other.
Arts and culture are important to Manchester, socially and economically, and therefore have an important role to play in the economic and health recovery of Manchester. However, future demand for arts and culture cannot be predicated on business models which, even prior to this disruption, were acknowledged to be inadequate to meet economic, social, and environmental challenges. One positive to be taken from the experience of “lockdown” is that it has occasioned an increased and more widespread understanding of the value and central importance of art and culture in our understanding of our own lives and, critically, in maintaining good mental health.
One positive to be taken from the experience of ‘lockdown’ is that it has occasioned an increased and more widespread understanding of the value and central importance of art and culture in our understanding of our own lives and, critically, in maintaining good mental health. We have reinforced that element of our analysis by the addition to our team of respected researcher and social prescribing expert Dr Rachel Marsden. She will work with Manchester City Council and health partners to identify geographic areas of the city and/or communities of interest for specific focus and consider how the project will extend opportunity for those people. We have included resource for a residents’ survey to inform proposals.
We recognise that our work builds on an existing framework, in the form of the ‘unlock’ proposals identified in Manchester’s Covid Recovery Plan. We will interrogate and develop those proposals with relevant stakeholders and potential investors, and use a range of co-design tools to work with the Contract Management Group to shape and prioritise an up to date, well-defined, realistic project, which is backed with commitment from partners.





Figure 1  The Fifth Sector's approach to the Manchester Cultural Consortium brief


Contributors
We will carry out desk-based review of  existing policies, strategies and contributions of stakeholders and partners across arts, culture, education, health, climate change and the political leadership of the city. In this, we recognise the central role for diversity and democratic representation of all the city’s communities in the production and consumption of culture. 
This will allow us to address the breadth of cultural producers and audiences in Manchester and the city region, including:
Third sector and commercial arts organisations; Funded and non-funded arts organisations; Micro-businesses (eg freelance artists/ creatives and technicians) and large scale businesses; Building-based and non-building based organisations; Arts and heritage sectors; Artist support networks eg GM Artists Hub.

 Constants
As well as determining the core purpose of the proposals and governance arrangements through a Theory of Change this work (led by Iain Bennett) will establish:
Strategic objectives
Prioritised action plan and budget
The roles and skills that need to be central to delivery of the Place Partnership, expressed in a RACI diagram
A set of operating principles and guidelines for governance, based on Nolan principles and founded in recognition of the need to increase equality, diversity and inclusion
Geographical scope and ‘porosity’ of the Place Partnership’s activity, membership and governance
 Change
Recognising that we are working from the midst of pandemic which has called into question all previous ‘constants’ and expectations of how Manchester’s cultural scene may evolve, the Theory of Change will act as a ‘living document’ for the future development and evolution of culture in the city. 
This element of the project will focus on identifying objectives and key results (OKRs) which measure progress toward achieving the step change sought through collective action. It will be led by Iain Bennett, incorporating elements from all other part of the study and the inputs and analysis of all team members. Within this, Lara Ratnaraja will take the lead in challenging findings to assure the particular focus on increasing diversity and inclusion within Manchester’s cultural ecosystem.
Methodology
1.	Project Inception
With such a wide range of partners, stakeholders and viewpoints to be accommodated, it is essential that the consultants and the client work very closely together from the outset around a clear and shared agenda. We propose that a Project Inception meeting will comprise a workshop with the project steering group which will:
	•	Theory of Change (ToC)
A ToC acts as a visual tool as well as a strategy document, giving a  clear summary of needs, drivers, inputs, activities, outputs, outcomes and impacts of the development of MCC. The ToC will also allow the leadership of MCC to retain a focus on other hard, cross-cutting issues, such as climate crisis, as an element within all planning and development, rather than as a separate ‘special interest’. 
Theory of Change (ToC)
A ToC acts as a visual tool as well as a strategy document, giving a  clear summary of needs, drivers, inputs, activities, outputs, outcomes and impacts of the development of MCC. The ToC will also allow the leadership of MCC to retain a focus on other hard, cross-cutting issues, such as climate crisis, as an element within all planning and development, rather than as a separate ‘special interest’. 
	•	Identify key milestones and agree objectives and key results (OKRs)
	•	Establish a register of key risks and agree a risk management strategy for the project
	•	Produce a Theory of Change framework (see text box) that will underpin the development of the overall vision and mission for the Place Partnership. 
From the critical initial project inception workshop with the client, which we will use to confirm the approach, methodology and engagement plan for the project, we will develop a Theory of Change to capture challenges, opportunities, and risks and to help direct analysis of research findings,  and perceived challenges/obstacles toward the development of shared and compelling proposals for the EOI.
In our experience, the Theory of Change model is an invaluable tool which helps all research participants and stakeholders identify themselves in the work and understand both their agency within it and the benefits of collaboration across the cultural and creative ecosystem of a place. It helps provide focus on the needs and potential socio-economic impacts on the widest possible range of potential beneficiaries and partners. We have successfully used this approach in social value-driven programme of research in Derby, Rushmoor, South Yorkshire and Tees Valley, and in evaluation of Wakefield’s Cultural Development Fund, to engage established cultural and heritage organisations, creative sector businesses, local authorities, communities, colleges and universities, arms-length and sector bodies in developing a programme and vision which also acknowledges and articulates the needs of more diverse, marginalised and excluded individuals, audiences and communities, and the opportunities that their engagement presents to develop new content, new forms and new audiences. 
This has helped us work with the client and stakeholders at every stage to bring together the insights from research and engagement with actors and stakeholders from across the region in a series of linked sector and investment plans. These principles of engagement will serve us to provide a consultative process that underpins the EOI proposals.
The ToC will provide a spine for the delivery of the project - a ‘living document’ to help partners and stakeholders define and prioritise potential inputs, stakeholders, outputs and outcomes the Partnership requires, and see their evolution through our research and engagement as we develop the vision, mission and business plan that form the basis of the initial Expression of Interest.
2. 	Discovery and Gap Analysis
The project team will conduct a gap analysis of existing evidence held by the City Council and partners to enable us to map arts, culture and heritage assets, places, and spaces, including:
Third sector and commercial arts organisations (both funded and non-funded, building based and non-building based)
Museums, libraries, and galleries
Micro-businesses, freelance artists/creatives, and large-scale businesses
Heritage sector
Artist support networks
Events sector and night-time economy, including evaluation of progress on the Events Recovery Plan
Analysis of funding, including ACE Develop Your Creative Practice funds, NLHF and other grants, to give a more detailed picture of capacity and gaps
Policy and strategies cross sector including health, climate change, national and potentially international contexts, as well as Manchester’s local strategies and priorities.
Evaluation and any necessary updating of Government and Sector Support received in Manchester, including a review of the ‘stabilisation’ phase of the Cultural Recovery Plan
‘Unlock’ proposals	
Priority projects for “Cultural Ambition”: Talent and Skills development, Joint work on arts and health, ageing and Cultural democracy action research
Evolution of the Cultural Leaders Group
We will use a PESTLE analysis to ascertain the current situational analysis for a new Place Partnership. This will consider the roles, positions, relationships and delivery activity of existing organisations in Manchester, their role in attracting audiences drawn from all parts of the conurbation, and their role in anchoring the cultural sector, to ensure a clarity of need and purpose for a Place Partnership, seek to minimise replication or duplication and ensure complementarity and reciprocal support.
The analysis will consider capacity and skills within Manchester’s events sector and night-time economy. Coming out of the pandemic, people need jobs; we welcome the suggestion that this sector could strengthen its governance and capacity for collaborative working through an Events Commission, bringing together existing networks. Skillsets (including in digital) and commercial awareness of this part of the sector may help other organisations to diversify and take advantage of new opportunities.
4.	Engagement
This phase will combine three tried and tested methodologies to test the position of the MCC within the wider cultural landscape and thus enabling identification of gaps in the Theory of Change, Vision and Mission. Lara Ratnaraja, a recognised specialist in equality, diversity and inclusion as it relates to culture and a partner in previous work with Manchester City Council, will help to ensure that the approach to mapping results in inclusion of the most diverse and inclusive sample of Manchester’s creative communities possible.
Key stakeholder interviews will be complemented by surveys of residents and cultural practitioners to seek out other voices and to establish demand. Findings will be assured through a World Café event for invited attendees (stakeholders and potential investors) to understand and comment on the ‘unlock’ proposals identified in Manchester’s Covid Recovery Plan.
A second World Café will be held specifically to address neighbourhoods and/or communities of interest for specific focus, at which stakeholders, practitioners and residents will work together to synthesise a response. This will help us to interrogate how the project will impact and identify those communities, including through social prescribing
The World Café approach will reinforce the idea that this is not a binary consultation; by looking at culture through the lens of intersectional diversity, our research will centre a plurality of voices, extending the visibility of the cultural offer and ensuring its relevance and resonance.
World Café
We will use “World Café” format workshops to refine findings from desk research and consultation, seek consensus and inform recommendations for governance and business planning. 
World Café is a “social technology” methodology which encourages creative conversations, networking and bringing forth new knowledge which can only be gained through social interaction.  It’s enjoyable, swift and enables a broad consultation in which everyone has an equal voice, limiting the possibility of individual agendas skewing the findings. The manner in which the process works allows for substantial quantities of high quality data to be captured quickly: the sessions are pacey and fun and bring added benefits of a networking function. 
We used this process very effectively in our previous work with the Cultural Leaders’ Group to establish a framework for the new Cultural Consortium; and in work to establish cultural strategies and Cultural Compacts in places including Derby and Rushmoor (Hampshire).
5.	Assessment
We will review and synthesise findings and inputs from all parts of the study and the analysis of all team members, conduct gaps analysis and refine OKRs in the Theory of Change which measure progress toward achieving the step change sought through collective action. Lara Ratnaraja will take the lead in challenging findings to assure the particular focus on increasing diversity and inclusion within The Place Partnership Project.
An initial  baseline report will summarise findings, providing an evidence base of need and forming the demand aspect of the project and commensurate governance and delivery structures to present to the Contract Management Group.
This will be followed by a presentation of proposals to be submitted in the Expression of Interest to a wider stakeholder and partners group and the final EOI to ACE.
This stage combines situational analysis using some familiar tools, scenario planning and options assessment to confirm consensus around the Vision and Mission and arrive at a preferred option.
The findings of our research and analysis will inform the agenda for a Visioning workshop, led by Lara Ratnaraja and involving the CMG alongside (potentially) a wider group of stakeholders and constituent members. This will provide an opportunity to shape the governance and business plan of the Place Partnership, and to identify a framework within which to continue to develop and manage activity. It will be built around several key elements:
Provocation document – in advance of the workshop, we will share a ‘provocation document’ setting out the key findings from our analysis and consultation challenges and opportunities that present themselves to the new consortium.
That challenge will include an initial assessment of diversity needed for a successful future partnership – we will draw upon our engagement to highlight a number of key partners who do not form part of the current network who could be invited to take part in the Visioning session to ensure that it is more representative and addresses future needs.
Scenario planning – in advance of the session, we will develop two or three models of how to address those challenges for the vision, mission, priorities and governance of the Place Partnership, and conduct SWOT analysis of each through the workshop.
Working with the workshop participants, we will conduct a RACI analysis to consider options for operating structures and governance. The RACI exercise will consider responsibility and accountability, who should be consulted in thedecision making process and who needs to be kept informed (stakeholders). The results of this exercise will bring forth any gaps in the current structure.
The outcomes of this workshop will be fed back into the Theory of Change document and inform the development of the Expression of Interest.
Governance
We are optimistic that, as cultural venues and activities are reopened, pent up demand for social and cultural experiences will mean that there will be demand for arts and creativity in all forms – including many new ones. But in order for that audience desire to be met and the ambitions of artists to be fulfilled, cultural producers and cultural infrastructure need to be sustained through this crisis. Once through it, artists, performers, curators, producers, tradespeople and impresarios of all kinds will need work. To achieve that, they will need to continue to be empowered by structures which can properly represent their interests and secure the resources needed for their continued and sustainable creative practice and operation.
6. 	Reporting
Draft Report 
Whilst the Expression of Interest will need to follow the rubric of the Place Partnership application guidelines, we foresee a need for the findings, recommendations and assessment of any obstacles to deliver to be more fully expressed at draft stage in order for CMG to give due consideration to them. To facilitate this, we propose to structure the draft along the lines of an HM Treasury Green Book business case, putting culture in Manchester on a structural and strategic footing to be a catalyst for sustainable and inclusive growth. This would consist of:
	•	Strategic case - case for change expressed through narrative (vision and mission statements) and structure (Theory of Change)
	•	Economic case - how does the partnership build public value? How should its success be measured?
	•	Commercial case – are the proposed activities and structures commercially viable (as a thing in itself, for individual organisations, for sponsors, as a catalyst and generator of investment and revenue for cultural and creative economy of Manchester)? Important in this section to show how the Place Partnership will catalyse audiences and innovation across the city region, whilst addressing key agendas around young people, ageing and health and strengthening footfall and the visitor economy within the city.
	•	Financial case - is it affordable within available funding and if not, in addition to identifying other public funds (including UK Shared Prosperity Fund), what other opportunities exist in private and philanthropic sources?
	•	Management case - is the proposed structure deliverable and sustainable, and how will it contribute to the work of other strategic bodies and local authorities with defined statutory and strategic responsibilities, how can we ensure that this structure can focus rather than dissipate the impact of collective action across Manchester? Who would be responsible, accountable, consulted, involved? How would it be governed?

We will use the outcomes of this assessment to arrive at a costed business plan for the Expression of Interest. 

 Expression of Interest
We will compile, collate and analyse findings throughout the discovery and engagement phase, updating the Theory of Change as we go along, and sharing those updates with the CMG at fortnightly intervals.
This will allow us to present initial findings and recommendations by 3 October and to work quickly and accurately to produce a first draft of the EOI one week later, leaving a further week for final review and revisions before the submission deadline of 17 October.
The final report will incorporate any changes agreed through discussion with the CMG. It will follow the format stipulated by the awards process.
Place Partnership bid
If successful, we will further develop proposals and produce the full application.
We would initiate this with a further workshop with the Contract Management Group to consider any feedback from ACE or changes in opportunities that may have occurred in the time between submission of the two applications.
We will submit a first draft for review and revision by the second week of January to allow two weeks for final revisions before submission of the bid on 30 January 2023.

Project management 
Iain Bennett will be the project manager and will be responsible, as Director of The Fifth Sector, for sub-contracting the other partners. He will be accountable for delivering the contracted outputs and will ensure that any contractual obligations agreed with the Client will be reflected in ‘back-to-back’ contracts with all sub-contractors. 
The project timeline (above) includes regular project updates but we envisage the need for more regular, informal touchpoints, particularly in the discovery phase, to establish the baseline data and evidence for the Place Partnership bid. We will seek to agree communications protocols at the Project Inception workshop and put in place a data sharing agreement as soon as possible so we can start to collate and analyse data.
The Fifth Sector Limited is a company registered in England (registration number 07539809) since February 2011. It   holds the following company insurance policies (copies available on request):
Professional indemnity insurance: £2,000,000
Public and products liability insurance: £5,000,000
Employer’s liability insurance: £5,000,000
The Fifth Sector and its sub-contractors agree to be bound by its Quality Assurance policy (available on request). The Fifth Sector also has established policies, reviewed at regular intervals, for:
Equality, diversity and inclusion
Health and Safety in the workplace
Environmental policy
Business continuity
Modern Slavery statement
The Fifth Sector is committed to providing as a minimum the living wage to all its employees and sib-contractors.
Communication
This brief is sophisticated, complex, potentially politically sensitive and needs to be delivered in a very limited timeframe. Therefore, effective communication is key to successful delivery. Iain Bennett will be the representative and main contact on behalf of all the partners. At project inception we will seek to agree the following communication protocols:
A single main point of contact within the client organisation
A schedule of project team meetings at key points, linked to objectives and key results of the project, to ensure that the client is informed and consulted on progress, particularly in advance of any material being sent to third parties as part of the consultation
A schedule of interim updates by telephone, Zoom or email to confirm progress on key deliverables
Draft schedule of surveys, workshops and interviews to be carried out as part of the project
Dispute resolution procedure
Protocol for prompt prior approval of any communications (verbal, text or images) to be sent by the consultants on behalf of the clients as part of the consultation
If the client wishes the consultants to use its own communications, social media or survey platforms in delivery of the research and consultation, agreement of protocols and either or both of identification of a team or individual responsible for uploading surveys or content, or login details
Access to any templates or logos which the client requires to be used in any external communications
Identification of a responsible individual or team on the client side to deal with any press enquiries or publicity requests relating to the research
Social value
The Fifth Sector and its partners are committed to supporting the aims of the City Council’s Social Value Policy. The Fifth Sector is a living wage employer. In some of our recent engagements we have been able to plan for direct benefits to local residents, in the form of work placements, and we would welcome any support from the CMG to incorporate a similar placement within our team for this project.

Zero Carbon
The Fifth Sector is committed to practical action to help the cultural sector achieve ‘net zero’ carbon. It has an environmental policy which promotes the use of local and renewal supplies wherever possible, seeks to minimise the environmental impact of meetings by using remote meeting tools wherever practicable and encourages walking, cycling and use of public transport where travel is essential. It sponsors a three-year programme of PhD research at the Zero Carbon Research Institute at University of Liverpool which seeks to help cultural venues and promoters measure their Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon impact, identify measures (including capital investment, supply chain management and behaviour change amongst audiences) to reduce these and construct a business plan to secure any necessary investment in capital or revenue to achieve those goals.  

SUBCONTRACTING
YES
NO



Is it the intention of your company to subcontract  

*(please tick what your response is)

If your answer to the above is yes please state which company you will be subcontracting to, the percentage and description of work you intend to subcontract:

Contractor:		Mandy Fowler

Address:		Poplar Cottage
Bache Mill
Diddlebury
Shropshire

Postcode:		SY7 9JX                         

Telephone Number:	 07789 187573                                                                        

Percentage of Work to be Subcontracted                         3      %      

Description of Work to be Subcontracted:	Contribution to development of final bid

Please note any company requesting to subcontract work must obtain written permission from the Corporate Purchasing Manager.

Any company found to be subcontracting who has failed to declare this at tender stage may incur the following action:

1.	The contract/framework being cancelled

2.	All other contracts/frameworks won by your company may be reassessed
 
PLEASE COMPLETE A NEW FORM FOR EACH SUBCONTRACTOR YOU WILL BE USING THIS INCLUDES OTHER CONSULTANTS IF THEY ARE TO BE USED.

Please attach the completed form(s) to your response in the online quality questionnaire


SUBCONTRACTING
YES
NO



Is it the intention of your company to subcontract  

*(please tick what your response is)

If your answer to the above is yes please state which company you will be subcontracting to, the percentage and description of work you intend to subcontract:

Company:		Morra Ltd			                                                                                        

Address:		13 Glastonbury Avenue
Altrincham
 
Postcode:		WA15 8QB
                             

Telephone Number:	07971 688262		                                                                         

Percentage of Work to be Subcontracted                       14        %      

Description of Work to be Subcontracted:	Skills mapping and stakeholder engagement around skills and business support

Please note any company requesting to subcontract work must obtain written permission from the Corporate Purchasing Manager.

Any company found to be subcontracting who has failed to declare this at tender stage may incur the following action:

1.	The contract/framework being cancelled

2.	All other contracts/frameworks won by your company may be reassessed
 
PLEASE COMPLETE A NEW FORM FOR EACH SUBCONTRACTOR YOU WILL BE USING THIS INCLUDES OTHER CONSULTANTS IF THEY ARE TO BE USED.

Please attach the completed form(s) to your response in the online quality questionnaire


SUBCONTRACTING
YES
NO



Is it the intention of your company to subcontract  

*(please tick what your response is)

If your answer to the above is yes please state which company you will be subcontracting to, the percentage and description of work you intend to subcontract:

Company:		Lara Ratnaraja	Limited	                                                                                        

Address:		87 Beauchamp Road
Billesley
Birmingham                                                                          
Postcode:		B13 0NW	

Telephone Number:	07796 290536

Percentage of Work to be Subcontracted              28                 %      

Description of  Work to be Subcontracted:		Diversity consultation and workshop management				                                                                    

Please note any company requesting to subcontract work must obtain written permission from the Corporate Purchasing Manager.

Any company found to be subcontracting who has failed to declare this at tender stage may incur the following action:

1.	The contract/framework being cancelled

2.	All other contracts/frameworks won by your company may be reassessed
 
PLEASE COMPLETE A NEW FORM FOR EACH SUBCONTRACTOR YOU WILL BE USING THIS INCLUDES OTHER CONSULTANTS IF THEY ARE TO BE USED.

Please attach the completed form(s) to your response in the online quality questionnaire

SUBCONTRACTING
YES
NO



Is it the intention of your company to subcontract  

*(please tick what your response is)

If your answer to the above is yes please state which company you will be subcontracting to, the percentage and description of work you intend to subcontract:

Company:		Dr Rachel Marsden	                                                                                        

Address:		 c/o The Fifth Sector
			24 Sandown Lane
			Liverpool

Postcode:		L15 8HY	

Telephone Number:	07974 212466

Percentage of Work to be Subcontracted              14                 %      

Description of Work to be Subcontracted:		Specialist input to health survey, consultation and findings

Please note any company requesting to subcontract work must obtain written permission from the Corporate Purchasing Manager.

Any company found to be subcontracting who has failed to declare this at tender stage may incur the following action:

1.	The contract/framework being cancelled

2.	All other contracts/frameworks won by your company may be reassessed
 
PLEASE COMPLETE A NEW FORM FOR EACH SUBCONTRACTOR YOU WILL BE USING THIS INCLUDES OTHER CONSULTANTS IF THEY ARE TO BE USED.

Please attach the completed form(s) to your response in the online quality questionnaire

SUBCONTRACTING
YES
NO



Is it the intention of your company to subcontract  

*(please tick what your response is)

If your answer to the above is yes please state which company you will be subcontracting to, the percentage and description of work you intend to subcontract:

Company:		The Smallprint Company (Hannah Barker, partner)                                                                                        

Address:		2-3 Friary Street
Derby

Postcode:		D1 1JF	

Telephone Number:	07948 266652

Percentage of Work to be Subcontracted              10                %      

Description of Work to be Subcontracted:		Research and administration

Please note any company requesting to subcontract work must obtain written permission from the Corporate Purchasing Manager.

Any company found to be subcontracting who has failed to declare this at tender stage may incur the following action:

1.	The contract/framework being cancelled

2.	All other contracts/frameworks won by your company may be reassessed
 
PLEASE COMPLETE A NEW FORM FOR EACH SUBCONTRACTOR YOU WILL BE USING THIS INCLUDES OTHER CONSULTANTS IF THEY ARE TO BE USED.

Please attach the completed form(s) to your response in the online quality questionnaire



Declaration - PLEASE READ AND SIGN THE DECLARATION BELOW

I/We apply to be considered to provide the development of an Expression of Interest and bid for a Place Partnership for Manchester for Manchester City Council.

I/We certify that the information supplied is accurate to the best of my/our knowledge and that I/we accept the conditions and undertakings requested in the tender. I/We understand that false information could result in my/our exclusion from consideration for this or any other contract with the Council.

I/We also understand that it is a criminal offence, punishable by imprisonment, to give or offer any gift or consideration whatsoever as an inducement or reward to any servant of a public body and that any such action will empower the Council to cancel any contract or framework currently in force and will result in my/our exclusion from consideration for this or any other contract or framework with the Council.

	I/We confirm that:

(i)	I/We have not communicated and will not communicate to any person, under agreement or arrangement, the amount of this tender/quotation.

(ii)	The amount of this tender/quotation has not been adjusted under any agreement or arrangement with any person.

Signed for and on behalf of the organization:

Contact details and declaration
Question
Response
Contact Name
Iain Bennett
Name of Organisation
The Fifth Sector Limited
Role in Organisation
Director
Phone Number
0151 203 3004
E-mail address
iain@thefifthsector.co.uk
Postal address
24 Sandown Lane, Liverpool L15 8HY
Signature (electronic is acceptable)

Date
09 July 2022


