Leicester Cultural and Creative Industries strategy



Interim summary report for consultation


 June 2023








Leicester Cultural and Creative Industries strategy



Interim summary report for consultation


 June 2023







Contents


 Data Collection 
 Data Analysis 
Engagement 
Interpretation 
supported by the more detailed versions of the sector analysis work that you have done, 
educational / learning review 
detail about the engagement sessions that doesn't belong in a final report but that would in an appendix. 
Introduction
Leicester City Council and its Partners (De Montfort University, Leicester University and Arts Council England) appointed consultants The Fifth Sector in November 2022 to help develop and shape a cultural strategy for Leicester. The purpose of the strategy is to help the city raise its collective ambition, create a compelling vision for what it can become and guide priorities for the next five years, 2023-2027. The Fifth Sector is highly experienced in this field, having created cultural strategies and operating models for Liverpool, Derby, South Yorkshire, Wakefield, Somerset, Rushmoor and others.

The brief
The brief required the consultants to: 
	•	Carry out an initial audit and convene key players (cultural, community, education, health, HE/FE, business/ commercial) to establish mutual interests and joint desired impacts of the strategy.  
	•	Clearly map and analyse existing sectors, identifying areas of strength, weakness and opportunity including consideration of post pandemic sector reset. 
	•	Undertake extensive public, stakeholder and business consultation. 
	•	Review and comment on existing local and national policies that are relevant; and consider major routes of funding that may be available to support the strategy. 
	•	Consider best practice from other cities that have effectively used similar strategies to deliver meaningful impact. 
	•	Recommend interventions to support specific sub sectors, including dance, music, theatre, creative digital, design, museums, training and education. 
	•	Propose future priorities for investment and intervention, particularly capital investment but also talent development and creative pathways, with consideration to the priorities of Arts Council England’s Let’s Create strategy, the diversity of the city’s communities and the priorities of children and young people. 
	•	Recommend a focus for a future ‘creative cluster’ bid for Leicester to drive creative industry growth. 
	•	Draft a cultural and creative industries strategy for the city and present it to stakeholders to include clear objectives, priorities and measures that reflect the history, condition and distinct identity of the place.  
	•	Explore the potential for development of a cultural compact as a model of governance to support the delivery of the strategy and draft terms of reference, membership, resourcing plan and action plan for next steps. 

Work to Date

	•	The Fifth Sector undertook a series of place-based community workshops and research phases between December 2022 and March 2023, reporting regularly to a project Steering Group. 
	•	An interim report was produced in April 2023, summarising research findings and outlining a vision, model and priorities for the strategy. 
	•	This document summarises the interim report and seeks comment on the draft vision, the proposed strategic objectives, actions and measures of success. It includes proposals for a new strategic and delivery partnership via a new Cultural Compact – Creative Leicester.
	•	Summary information about the current state of Leicester’s creative industries, the creative skills and education offer and examples of Leicester’s rich culture and heritage are included at the back of this document.












SWOT analysis

Strengths 
Design cluster of national significance.
Emerging creative services sector.
An arts and cultural offer across many artistic genres, much of it world class
A city commitment to community cohesion and celebrating diversity.
Established arts organisations that have embedded work within community settings.
Strong year-round offer of cultural events and festivals.
Growth of investment from Arts Council England via new National Portfolio Organisations, including diverse-led organisations.
Strong partnership between the universities and the city, codified in a Civic University Agreement including commitments to culture.
Strong and growing cluster of heritage assets, both paying and free.  
Significant capital investment already undertaken or planned that will improve the cultural offer and capacity for growth.
Some excellent partnership working between specific organisations.

Opportunities
Appetite and enthusiasm amongst partners to work together.
Expanded and more diverse group of NPOs enjoying additional Arts Council resource.
New Workspaces at Pilot House, at Space City and (potentially) around Midland Street in Cultural Quarter to support Creative Industries growth.
Underused assets that could help fill capacity gaps.
Responding to UK Government’s new Creative Industries Sector Vision – including opportunities to bid for funds to support growth of a Creative Industries Cluster.
Synergy with other place marketing strategies (such as for the Visitor Economy, Inward Investment and Attracting Students).
A ‘Post-LLEP’ landscape could prioritise creative sector business support. 


Weaknesses
Some communities aren’t well served or engaged by the existing offer.
Workforces, leaders, governing bodies and audiences don’t reflect the diverse make up of the city.
Patchy track record of collaboration across the arts and cultural sector for promotion, programming, and audience development.
Gaps in the cultural estate such as rehearsal space.
Difficulties in attracting and retaining key creative talent remains a barrier to growth
Lack of demand for some creative learning opportunities.
Shortages in key creative production capacity including grow-on space for businesses and bespoke facilities (lab space, production studios).
Creative sector structurally imbalanced and overdependent on freelance working - too few small businesses demonstrate appetite or strategy for growth.
Lack of a city proposition for creative industries growth that can secure resource at scale.


Threats
Economic downturn and cost of living reduces audiences and spend, makes cultural businesses (most in varying stages of recovery) reluctant to invest in talent and innovation.
Staff shortages and increased operating costs (including energy) threatens sustainability of some venue-based cultural organisations.
Lack of sector coordination reduces chance of securing new investment.
Revenue pressures restricts City Council’s ability to support the sector.
Lack of trust and engagement undermines ability to coordinate joint working.
Commitment to diversity, inclusion and equality is not sustained and embedded in organisational plans and cultures.

Equality, diversity and inclusion
Leicester’s unique demographics
The 2021 Census identifies Leicester as one of a handful of ‘majority minority’ cities in the UK. Over the last decade, Leicester's diversity has grown stronger. Its population is now made up of:
	•	43.4 per cent of people who identify as Asian, Asian British or Asian Welsh
	•	40.9 per cent of people from white backgrounds (including both British and European nationals)
	•	7.8 per cent of people who identify as black, black British, black Welsh, Caribbean or African
	•	3.8 per cent of people are mixed or of multiple ethnic groups 
The data alone do not fully account for the dynamism and change within the city’s array of diaspora communities, both established and more recently arrived. The source and demographic mix of new arrivals is in constant flux and influenced as much by educational and economic opportunity as by family ties. 
Leicester’s cultural offer already celebrates this diversity and projects it to national and international audiences; in 2023, the city saw five new diverse-led cultural organisations invited to form part of Arts Council England’s National Portfolio, and an increase in annual investment in the city of £1.38 million (or 22%).
This success represents a step on the journey, not the end goal – there is much further to go before the make up of Leicester’s creative workforce and its cultural output are fully representative of the rich and complex diversity of the city’s people and communities, This strategy sets out a challenge to partners across local and national government, the cultural sector and educational institutions to support Leicester’s diverse cultural and creative employers to increase and broaden their appeal to local and global audiences whilst improving inclusion, engagement and career opportunities for those currently disadvantaged.
 Capital investment and public spaces
Much has been done in recent years to invest in physical spaces and places that support the city’s cultural offer. Specialist events spaces such as Jubilee Square and Green Dragon Square have been supported by initiatives like the Phoenix 2020 extension and the creation of a unique network of heritage panels and street art. Some proposed actions are also captured in the Creative Industries theme.
Strategic objective
Attract and deliver capital investment to enhance Leicester’s cultural and creative industries offer and to support audience and workforce development
Already in the pipeline
	•	£15m new visitor attraction at Jewry Wall to celebrate Roman history of the city - opens Summer 2024
	•	£9m to create new climate emergency and art galleries and re-tell the social history of the city at Leicester Museum and Art Gallery, delivered in phases 2024–26
	•	£12.7m Leicester Cathedral Revealed scheme completes with the Cathedral open to the public at end 2023 followed by a new visitor learning centre in 2024 
	•	£13m creative workspace (60,000 sq ft) at Pilot House, King St opens early 2025 
	•	55,000 sq ft of new innovation and tech DOCK workspace at Space City in 2024 Future priorities
	•	Develop the All In initiative that champions improved access for all (including people with disabilities, neuro diverse conditions, dementia etc) creating a Leicester specific standard
	•	Improve specialist event site infrastructure including in city parks.
	•	Establish if Curve could expand to be a Tier One venue (1,200+ seats).
	•	Re-open Haymarket theatre with programming that targets under-served communities.
	•	Improve infrastructure where the current offer has gaps (dance rehearsal space, contemporary arts gallery etc).
	•	Develop a plan for using new Digital Technology to enhance the programming offer in venues and the public realm. Measures of success
	•	Increase in total area of workspace occupied by creative businesses 
	•	Increased occupancy of creative workspace.
	•	Venues meeting the Leicester ‘All In’ standard
	•	Increase number of and attendance at events held on public open spaces.
	•	Infrastructure improvements at City parks.
	•	Improvement in talent attraction and perception of Leicester as a creative econom

	•	 Civic Partnership

Leicester benefits from an existing ‘civic university agreement between De Montfort, Leicester and Loughborough Universities and the city and counties of Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland. The partnership is an existing compact which prioritises actions in arts, culture and heritage, economic development, education, environmental sustainability and health, wellbeing and sport. 

It is proposed we use these arrangements as the basis to drive delivery of and accountability for the Creative Industries and the Creative Talent and Skills elements of the strategy, though it is recognised other partners will also need to be engaged with this work. Both city universities are heavily engaged with research and innovation work to foster creative industries economic growth and will be core to any future ‘Creative Clusters’ bid or similar for the city. Securing such resource is an explicit ambition for the strategy.



.



Data Collection
Leicester’s cultural and creative industries
Leicester’s creative industries comprise 1,440 companies and a workforce of 30,000 people, 15,600 of whom are based in the city and the remainder across the county. This indicates that potential for the creative economy as a driver for inclusive growth is far greater than suggested by national statistics (895 businesses and 4,395 employees).  

Data analysis
Sector strengths
Internationally renowned for its fashion manufacturing, Leicester boasts a nationally significant cluster of design businesses, working both across creative services of advertising, marketing and graphic design and in delivering innovation and added value across Leicester’s manufacturing and services sectors.
The city is increasingly recognised as a hub for original digital content: immersive technology pioneers Metro-Boulot-Dodo have gained national and international recognition for their work and National Space Centre is developing applications of mixed reality in live performance and in large-scale specialist digital content. De Montfort University and University of Leicester are working in partnership with the city’s diverse creative producers to provide access to facilities and collaborative approaches to research & development to meet the challenges in creative technology. These will help producers scale up to exploit opportunities which the city’s unique diversity lends them in addressing global marketplaces and platforms across all genres.

Creative skills and education
The University of Leicester is a recognised centre of excellence in museum studies and De Montfort is strong in textiles and fashion design. 
Creative supply chains
We group LinkedIn industry codes into supply chains to allow for analysis of pathways into industries with similar skills needs (Figure 2). The ‘Digital” supply chain is, for the purpose of this study, the single LinkedIn industry code of “computer software” – we have suggested some of the creative industry activities which fall within that.
Figure 2 Creative supply chains

The Fifth Sector 2023


Analysis of creative supply chains for Leicester and Leicestershire reveals almost identical composition of the workforce. This is one workforce distributed across the county; there is no structural difference between the workforce resident in the city centre and in the county.
Figure 3  Breakdown of Leicester workforce by creative supply chain

 Figure 4  Breakdown of Leicestershire workforce by creative supply chain

The Fifth Sector/Curator Technologies 2023
Benchmarking
Leicester demonstrates a similar size and composition of its creative and digital business base and workforce to nearby cities and city regions, including Derby (which has a similar sized business base but a workforce in the city and county about half the size of that in Leicester and Leicestershire) and South Yorkshire (where the sector consists of almost twice as many creative enterprises but draws from a similarly sized creative workforce across the South Yorkshire city region.)
 Leicester’s cultural offer
Leicester already offers a rich and vibrant cultural and creative scene which increasingly reflects and champions the city’s diversity to local, national and international audiences.
Cultural organisations include:
	•	Curve Theatre, a state-of-the-art theatre that hosts a wide range of productions, including musicals, plays, dance performances and community engagement initiatives;
	•	Phoenix, a contemporary arts venue offering film screenings, art exhibitions, performances, workshops, and a digital media centre, promoting engagement with the arts and creative technology; and 
	•	Attenborough Arts Centre at University of Leicester, a centre of excellence for disability arts creating and curating a range of inspiring artistic exhibitions, live performances, events and creative courses.
Diversity – Leicester’s cultural superpower
Serendipity Institute for Black Arts and Heritage centres perspectives from the African and African Caribbean Diaspora as part of cultural experiences for all. Arts Council England has added diverse-led organisations such as Inspirate, Opal 22 and Phizzical to its National Portfolio which also includes theatre companies such as Bamboozle, South Asian dance company Nupar Arts, Darbar (a national centre of excellence for Indian classical music) Leicester Museums and children’s arts companies such as Soft Touch and Spark. Aakash Odedra, a dance company which uses the voice of British-Asian experience to tell new stories about modern life, tours internationally, with live audiences exceeding 250,000 and over 1 million views online.
The city boasts a vibrant music scene. De Montfort Hall is a historic concert venue that hosts classical music, popular concerts, and touring acts; The Shed, The Soundhouse and 2Funky Music Cafe promote a range of upcoming artists and club nights covering a huge range of musical genres. HQ Recording is a regional hub for Urban, R&B and Hip-Hop artists. 
Leicester festivals reflect the diverse cultural traditions, arts, and music of its residents. It hosts the largest Diwali celebration outside India, a longstanding Caribbean Carnival and Leicester Comedy Festival, an annual event that showcases comedy acts from renowned comedians to emerging talents.
The city boasts a heritage offer which emphasises that one of Leicester’s defining characteristics over the last 2,000 years has been its constantly evolving role as a place of opportunity and refuge for communities from across the globe. 
The Libraries and Museums services of the Council work closely together and have significant ambition to develop new models of community engagement which feel genuinely novel and ambitious, focused on both local and visiting audiences.



