YoC 24 Impact Framework

1.
Year of Culture 2024  - What this means for the District 
The Year of Culture 2024 aims to maximise the contribution of the  Council’s cultural services and assets to the benefit and reputation of our district’s people, places and business. A year-long celebration across the whole district will leave a lasting legacy placing Culture at the heart of our Future: 

‘To drive forward an outstanding quality of life for everyone. A happy, prosperous, welcoming, and inclusive place where culture and creativity is everywhere and for everyone’

‘From our amazing cultural attractions to our growing network of artists and creative businesses -we want to support activity across the sector and give everyone the chance to be part of the district’s Year of Culture.’

‘Transformative, galvanising communities and visitors to gather, share and celebrate our present and future. It will enable residents to explore and discover the district’s culture and their own creativity. Across villages, towns and the city, stories will be experienced in ways which will inspire the whole district and beyond.’

As a future-focused programme YoC24’s benefits will contribute directly to the following strategies in order to ensure the ongoing realisation and broadest impact of its benefits:

	•	Wakefield Council Corporate Strategy
	•	West Yorkshire Combined Authority’s Culture and Sport Strategy
	•	Creative Wakefield Strategy
	•	Arts Council England -Creative Places Strategy
2.
Baseline
Baseline for measurement, monitoring and evaluation will be derived from by evidence gathered from:
	•	Cultural surveys conducted in 2019 and 2021
	•	Baseline evidence presented as part of the business case for Creative Wakefield
	•	Evaluation of relevant Creative Development Fund investment, including summer s’cool (revenue) and Wakefield Exchange (capital)


PURPOSE of Impact Framework
To draw together and report in detail the disparate themes and multiple benefits that make up the YoC’s transformational ambition requires a clear logic model for progress-monitoring, evaluation. and translation into delivery of the wider strategies it supports.
Simplified logic model
Themes
	•	Celebrating our diverse communities and places
	•	Where In The World?
	•	Creating Tomorrow’s World - Today
Investment Principles
(and source of rationale)
	•	Wakefield Council Corporate Plan strategic priorities
	•	West Yorkshire Combined Authority’s Culture and Sport Strategy ((People, Place, Skills, Business)
	•	Creative Wakefield Strategy
	•	Arts Council England – Let’s Create investment principles (Ambition & Quality, Dynamism, Environmental Responsibility, Inclusion & Relevance)
Activities
YoC 2024 programme
Outputs / Measures
An extensible impact framework combining quant and qual measures (see draft impact framework for details)
Outcomes
Linked to Wakefield Corporate Plan
Benefits realisation
Role of Culture, Leisure & Sport, Wakefield Council and external partners



Outcomes key
Appendix 1 (Draft performance indicators) groups suggested indicators against corporate priorities. This categorisation of indicators will be linked to the development of the final impact framework, in consultation with the Culture, Leisure & Sport team.
Impact framework (attached as Appendix 2)
Set out thus because it allows you to:
	•	Simply add or delete programme elements by removing a row
	•	Add, remove or merge outcome themes by adding, removing or merging columns
This draft YoC24 Impact Framework therefore achieves 3 requirements; it,
	•	Provides a clear plan of YoC24’s contribution to District, Regional and National Priorities.
	•	Acts as a guide to Value for Money and Inclusive Delivery.
	•	Maps legacy and detailed responsibilities for benefits realisation.
It should be noted that this impact framework focuses upon the strategic aims, outputs and outcomes of the YoC24 in respect of the above four district and wider strategies. It assumes that project governance, legal, climate emergency, property/asset, procurement and other requirements / priorities’ monitoring are included within the component projects. Equalities monitoring are included alongside geographic measures within the framework, but this is not meant to be to the exclusion of existing standing measures and reporting required for all Wakefield Council activities.









Corporate Implications Schedule
Appendix 2 sets out a draft impact framework. It is assumed that this will need to be clearly linked to the Council Implication Framework all component projects of the programme. (see Corporate Implications Schedule below for reference.)




CORPORATE IMPLICATIONS SCHEDULE 



Yes / No

Comments/agreed by/ name of person consulted.

Name of Portfolio Holder:

Date discussed:




Is the report a key decision?

If it is a key decision, what date did the report appear on the Forward Plan?




Why is it a key decision report?  Please specify: budget or policy framework (BPF) / finance (FIN) / significant impact on 2 or more wards (WARDS).




All reports are to be presented in public.

(If not, the report should clearly state the reasons why and specify the paragraph(s) allowing the exemption or, the reasons why the report contains confidential information and must be approved by the Chief Executive or the Monitoring Officer.  If approved please date.

If the report is to be considered in private have you notified the Committee Services Team.  (All private reports must be advertised 28 days in advance of the meeting).




Relevance to Corporate Priorities - How is what is proposed contributing to these priorities? - if ‘Yes’ give details in the report.




IMPLICATIONS



Finance Implications provided by?

Does the report set out the financial context of what is being proposed?




Legal Implications provided by?




Climate Change implications provided by?
How will the report contribute to achieving the Council’s ambitious target to make Wakefield Council a Carbon Neutral organisation before 2030?




Property Implications provided by?
Is there an impact on property / asset management




Equality Implications provided by?




Implications on the impact on Information Governance (Data Protection, Information Security, Data Quality etc.) provided by? 




Technology Implications provided by?





Has a comprehensive impact assessment been prepared?




What is the impact on equality and cohesion?

Has an equality impact assessment been prepared?




Is there an impact on health issues?




Does this impact on crime and disorder?




Is there an impact on staffing/organisational development?




Is there an impact on the environment?




What are the risk implications?




Is there impact on national or local performance indicators and data quality?




Other implications 





 
