Draft Proposal: Skills, Engagement, and Support for Cultural and Creative Industries
Understanding the brief
WYCA’s current tender for skills and business support for Creative Industries ‘bottom up’ support for freelances and graduates with business development in a way which  the sector, networking organisations identified and local authorities
Encouraging more people to become freelances without having identified that there is demand amongst employers for skills and services in that form only multiplies existing information asymmetries and creates false expectations in new graduates (cf, ‘Creative Step’ model - https://www.creativelancashire.org/support/the-creative-step - in Lancashire, which has increased demand for freelance support but has signally failed to achieve its aspirations in terms of sector and employment growth). The specification set out in the tender risks:
Sending mixed messages to creative employers, without providing real support for them to grow their business in order to create new jobs that will be sustainable in the medium to long term.
Wasting and mis-allocating resource: informed (and remunerated) engagement, targeting and messaging of creative employers and freelances is critical to ensure that support reaches local businesses which can benefit from it and reflects the variation in structural barriers to growth (e.g, discontinuity in supply chains, awareness of/access to national and international markets, skills gaps/shortages) between sectors and across districts of West Yorkshire.
Creating new expectation amongst new entrants and freelances which isn’t met by actual demand or employment opportunities.
Our experience of delivering skills and business support to creative industries across England over the last 20+ years is that:
(NB: not necessarily registered companies, could be self-employed or partnerships), each of which has potential to grow by one person
 freelances and new entrants with relevant skills
The way to ensure resilience of those jobs is to develop the strategic and business management capabilities of the owners of those businesses as well as the skills of the potential entrants.
Of the existing networks cited in the tender, Wilson’s Republic looks to have a sector footprint more likely to generate employment in this way than Creative Wakefield, Calderdale Creates or the Bradford/Leeds forums. But it tends to focus on a set of industries around design and marketing that do not reflect demand from other potential growth sectors (e.g., film and television, music and performing arts). 
Skills Audit
Research and development of a needs assessment benefits realisation strategy  needs to precede development of  for skills and business support for Cultural and Creative Industries in West Yorkshire.
We will conduct a thorough audit of skills needs in the cultural and creative industries across West Yorkshire along the lines of the following methodology:
Analysis of workforce data from sources like LinkedIn to understand skills supply and demand, identify skills shortages, and map key roles and mobility.
Updated mapping of skills supply from education providers.
Workshops with geographic and sector networks to gather qualitative insights into priority skills needs.
Workshops and surveys with employers to identify specific skills gaps and business support needs.
The findings will inform a benefits realisation strategy and plan for targeted skills development and business support.
Existing employment trends
We have done some analysis of BRES data (see appendix) to check CCI employment across West Yorkshire. (We have much more detailed evidence from other studies in Calderdale, Kirklees and Wakefield, which we could share with permission from those Councils.) With the usual caveats about BRES (its sampling methodology and the fact that it excludes freelances and self-employed which aren’t registered businesses chief among them, but also the fact that its accuracy declines in correlation with distance from London), there are some helpful insights (all trend data for period 2015-2022 – the latest data available – unless stated):
Growth in CCI employment varies widely – the WYCA average (18%) lags both Leeds (35%) and Wakefield (31%). What have those places been doing right?
Growth in CCI employment as a proportion of total employment between 2015-22 is stronger in Wakefield (27%) than both WYCA (11%) and Leeds (19%).
Production services, driven by Production Park, has added 150 jobs (all of them since 2020).
GVA in Calderdale’s CCI grew by 18% between 2020-22 (now £162 million) – if CCI businesses reflected productivity at the national median level, this would add a further £40m GVA in Calderdale alone. 
Growth in music, performing and visual arts employment and bounce-back from impact of lockdown are a factor in many places – analysis for Calderdale suggests that GVA per capita in Arts increased by 30% between 2020 and 2022 (to £81k), and that it is now the second largest creative employment sector (behind IT, software and computer services) in Wakefield.
Evidence from Calderdale is that Advertising & Marketing, Film, TV and Radio, Publishing and Arts all demonstrate higher GVA per capita than IT, software and computer services.
Approach and methodology
We recommend a five step approach to resolve existing uncertainties and information asymmetries and to arrive at a benefits realisation strategy which would have most impact and deliver best value for money:
Analysis of alternative data sources to address shortcomings in national statistics:
LinkedIn (which includes freelances, contractors, self-employed and students as well as those in full- and part-time employment) on a Wakefield and West Yorkshire basis to understand true scale of the creative workforce, identify key roles, levels of experience and mobility of the creative workforce and to identify major employers of creative skills both within creative industries and in the wider economy. 
Beauhurst, which allows us to parse up-to-the-minute data on businesses from Companies House alongside other evidence of R&D funding, grants, business support received and key markets for creative firms.
Findings to be summarised in a report which analyses LinkedIn data alongside evidence of employment (BRES), business numbers (IDBR) and skills needs (from desk review of academic, government and sector reports).
Update existing mapping of skills supply in T-Levels, FE, HE, Apprenticeships and CPD (using same methodology as work already carried out for Wakefield, Calderdale and Kirklees), expanding coverage to whole of West Yorkshire.
Series of workshops to engage both geographical and sector-specific creative networks working across Yorkshire as part of developing more detailed sector needs analyses and establishing both skills in greatest shortage/demand and priority sub-sectors.
Series of workshops with local employers within identified priority sectors to establish detailed set of skills and business development needs, supported by online survey to test demand for the actions identified.
Combining our desk-based research and findings from engagement with evidence of need/demand from Wilson’s Republic, CalderdaleCreates, Creative Wakefield and other district cultural and creative networks to develop a benefits realisation strategy and outline delivery plan for skills and business support for creative industries.
Needs assessment
We will actively engage the five local creative industry networks in Bradford, Calderdale, Kirklees, Leeds, and Wakefield through:
Participation in the skills needs analysis workshops and research.
Co-design of the skills training  based on the audit findings.
Support for outreach to increase membership diversity, e.g. through staff time, events, pipeline programs.
Facilitating peer knowledge sharing between networks.
This aims to increase network capacity and leverage local insights.
Design and Delivery of Specialist Support
Using the skills gaps identified in the audit, we will deliver tailored business skills training and support for creative industries freelancers and microenterprises across West Yorkshire. This will comprise:
Core modules on key business topics like planning, IP, finance, tax, and contracts.
Specialist seminars targeted at priority creative subsectors with customied expert content.
A modular structure allowing flexible delivery scaled across the region.
Referral relationships with local networks and relevant national bodies.
Options for sustained peer support communities by subsector.
The specialised support will build resilience and growth for at least 200 creative freelancers and microbusinesses.
An expert and experienced team
Iain Bennett and Lynne McCadden would carry our desk research and lead workshops. The Fifth Sector would commission long-term partner Andy Goodwin of Insightful Industries to carry out analysis of LinkedIn.
Timescale
If commissioned by end January, we would be able to deliver as follows:
Updated skills mapping: end February 2024
Workforce and company mapping: mid-March 2024
Engagement with sector and geographical networks: Feb-March 2024
Engagement with employers: Feb-March 2024
Draft report: end March 2024
Benefits realisation strategy and outline delivery plan: mid-April 2024.
Alternatively, we could conduct the engagement described in 3 and 4 on the basis of publicly available data but that would lose the benefit of having up-to-date and granular evidence of changes in the labour market.  
Iain Bennett
Appendix 1: Creative Industries employment data
Table 1 summarises the latest publicly-available data on creative industries employment from BRES 2022 (Business Register and Employment Survey) for West Yorkshire.
Table 1  Creative Industries employment in West Yorkshire 2022
Source: The Fifth Sector analysis of BRES 2022