BEATLES INDUSTRY  ECONOMIC IMPACT STUDY

Purpose of Paper – The purpose this paper is to request support of c£10k to facilitate the Beatles Legacy Group (BLG)  to commission an update of the  2016 report Beatles Heritage In Liverpool and Its Economic and Cultural Sector Impact 

Background  - The Beatles Legacy Group was established in 2016 by the then Mayor of Liverpool after the publication of the above report into the economic impact of The Beatles in Liverpool.  The original report was  delivered by a partnership between the University of Liverpool (Institute of Popular Music), John Moores University, and the Institute of Cultural Capital.  The headline figures from that report were that in 2014 the estimated net impact of The Beatles legacy was £81.9m turnover and 2335 jobs. 

Why Is An Update Needed?
The original report was based on data from 2014 so is now over a decade old. The landscape has also changed significantly since then with a number of  new Beatles related attractions added to the city’s offer including the Mathew Street Beatles Museum, Strawberry Fields, British Music Experience, and even the English Heritage Blue Plaque at Arnold Grove. 
Many experts including the former Director of Marketing Liverpool, Chris Brown, (now a member of the BLG) always thought the impact figures were an under estimation anyway. 
The next few years are likely to see a further upsurge in Beatles tourism to the city. Next year is the 60th anniversary of the release of the Sgt Pepper album, widely regarded as one of the most significant albums ever which will lead to huge coverage globally around the importance of The Beatles. NML will be hosting a major exhibition on the history of The Cavern. A BBC production about the Beatles in Hamburg is being shot in the coming months and will be released later this year. The four  Sam Mendes films about The Beatles are scheduled for release in April 2028 and the build up to these will be a major media topic for 12 months before release.  Finally although details are still confidential Apple are potentially looking at developing a Beatles attraction in the city.  
All of the above are likely to lead to a surge in Beatles related tourism on top of what is already likely to be figures that are considerably in advance of what the 2016 report estimated. 

Accurate data around the impact of The Beatles is important both for the tourism and music sectors in the city and can help shape future support for both.  At the moment we have no clear idea of how many people visit the city due to music tourism and how many of these are driven primarily by legacy of The Beatles. 
The BLG themselves have delivered a number of successful projects in recent years (mainly in partnership with BID) and are now looking to become more active and have more of an influence on policy through their proposed move to CIC status.  This evidence base will be crucial to the group. 

Next Steps
The University of Liverpool (Institute of Popular Music)  have secured a small amount of funding to host a Beatles Summit in June (potentially on 3rd June). All stakeholders in Beatles tourism will be invited to attend this event which will provide a narrative that can accompany  the piece of work that we are looking for support to commission.  It may be that we can also ask if they agree to provide further information if we are successful in securing this funding as many will undoubtedly be reluctant to share information in front of ‘competitors’ on the day. 

The BLG have identified a local expert, Iain Bennett of The Fifth Sector, as someone who would be ideally equipped to do this but would be happy to go out to tender if this is a requirement. Iain do you want to give us a few lines on relevant work you have undertaken that I can put here. 

For the requested £10k Iain would be able to provide an outline economic impact figure for Beatles tourism in the city. 
To do a comprehensive study an additional amount to cover a survey team would be needed. Iain  – any idea what figure I should suggest?
The work would focus on the city centre where  the majority of the Beatles related attractions are based although it would be useful to also include the National Trust properties and Strawberry Fields if possible. 

It would be useful to know what data is available from BID via any data gathered on visitor numbers/why they are visiting etc 



