Fifth Sector – Freelancer & Micro-Business Support 
Monitoring data requirements 
Introduction 
As set out in the Statement of Requirements, delivery partners are required to collect and share monitoring data with WYCA and our evaluators, Wavehill/Counterculture.  
This information is required to track how the project is progressing, inform contract management, and provide important data for the evaluation.  
Monitoring data requirements are informed by the outputs in the logic model, included as an appendix to this document. The logic model is a ‘live’ document that will be reviewed and updated throughout the lifetime of the programme.  
Monitoring data is to be submitted alongside progress reporting – a spreadsheet will be developed to be completed along with narrative progress reports. The Privacy Notice is required to set out data sharing with both WYCA and Wavehill.  
As this project is part of a wider programme (You Can Make It Here), some monitoring data is required to be collected in the same way by each delivery partner, to ensure it can be aggregated at a programme-level. This document opens with these requirements, and then breaks down any further monitoring data requirements by each strand of the project.  
Overall programme data 
Data relevant to this project that we want to be able to aggregate across the whole programme, requiring consistency in data collection across all projects.  
EDI data for participants (exact question wording to be agreed with Wavehill to ensure consistency across YCMIH) 
Gender 
Ethnicity  
Disability 
Age group  
Postcode (for IMD) – residence and business  
The number of freelancers and number of micro-businesses supported – i.e. attending one or more support sessions (number of unique beneficiaries supported) 
The number of skills sessions and training sessions delivered 
The hours of support provided, per participant in the project – i.e. total hours of sessions attended, per participant 
Following data requirements are specific to this project.  
Project Participants  
In addition to the above, overall monitoring data is required on who participates in the project: 
Number of freelancers and microbusinesses supported 
Data broken down as above (Overall Programme Data) 
Job type/role 
Sector/art form  
If PT/FT 
Which network they’re part of, and when they joined the network 
If a student or recent FE/HE graduate (‘recent’ defined as graduating in the last 5 years from any course), and the subject of the course completed 
For micro-businesses – number of employees (by PT/FT), and EDI data on founder and/or other employees from the business,  
Last FY’s salary / turnover (for baseline) 
Before/After Participant Forms  
Registration form to be used to collect some baseline information on participants, e.g. establishing a baseline of participants’ perceptions of their skills/skills gaps, any barriers experienced (what’s stopping them from achieving their goals and therefore why they are seeking support) and their long-term goals or objectives. The form is to be designed in consultation with Wavehill.  
As support is to be delivered in two phases, a follow up form will be sent to participants at the end of Phase 1 (November) and at the end of Phase 2 (March). This form is intended to capture what participants feel they have got out of the support, what worked, how they will put it into practice, current skill levels etc. Results from the Phase 1 form can be used to inform delivery in Phase 2. The questions will be designed by Wavehill, in consultation with Fifth Sector (timeline TBC). Fifth Sector will administer the forms, and share all data with Wavehill. 
Skills and Business Support Sessions 
Number of sessions delivered, by:,  
Type of session – core or elective 
Support type (e.g. from progress report: freelancer, leaders and managers, and skills?) 
Topic 
Length and location  
Organisation delivering session, and facilitator(s) 
Engagement with each session:  
Number applying to attend 
Number receiving a place to attend  
Number of actual attendees, by ‘participant data’ detailed above 
Networking Opportunities 
Number of networking sessions run as part of project (to be captured separately to the overall number of support sessions delivered, and the hour of support provided for each participant) 
Attendance at these sessions 
Access to other support offers 
If participants have access other support offers, before and/or during the programme; and the type of support engaged with 
How participants heard about the programme (drop down menu to be grouped by ‘type/theme’) 
Project management 
Governance and Advisory Group – record of meetings and minutes 
Narrative progress reports 
Documents used for Needs Analysis 
Marketing plan  
Organogram of team 
Participant journey by work strand (freelancer, leader and skills) 
Call out documentation and supplier requirements (e.g. statement of requirements, funding agreement) 
Appraisal framework when selecting suppliers, if available 