
[PAGE 1]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  1  
 
  
Request for Proposal (RFP) 
For:  UK_1412 – Evaluating the strategic and economic return of international artist-led 
innovation 
Date:  August/September 2026  
1 Overview of the British Council 
We support peace and prosperity by building connections, understanding and trust between people in the 
UK and countries worldwide. 
We uniquely combine the UK’s deep expertise in arts and culture, education and the English language, our 
global presence and relationships in over 100 countries, our unparalleled access to young people, 
creatives and educators, and our own creative sparkle. 
We work directly with individuals to help them gain the skills, confidence and connections to transform their 
lives and shape a better world in partnership with the UK. We support them to build networks and explore 
creative ideas, to learn English, to get a high-quality education and to gain internationally recognised 
qualifications. 
We work with governments and our partners in the education, English language and cultural sectors, in the 
UK and globally. Working together we make a bigger difference, creating benefit for millions of people all 
over the world 
We take a long-term approach to building trust and remain at arm’s length from government. We work with 
people in over 200 countries and territories and are on the ground in more than 100 countries. In 2022–23 
we reached 600 million people 
2 Introduction and Background to the Project / Programme 
2.1  British Council is seeking an economist or strategic researcher (or team of) to conduct a mixed-
methods analysis that evidences the multi-dimensional economic returns  of the international art 
and technology sector to the UK. 
2.2 The purpose and scope of this RFP and supporting documents is to explain in further detail the 
requirements of the British Council and the process for submitting a proposal in response to this RFP 
(“Proposal ”).  
3  Proposal Conditions and Contractual Requirements 

[PAGE 2]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  2  
 This section of the RFP sets out the British Council’s contracting requirements, general policy 
requirements, and the general conditions relating to this procurement process (“ Procurement Process ”).  
3.1 Contracting requirements 
3.1.1 Contracting authority: the British Council which includes any other companies and organisations 
that control or are controlled by the British Council from time to time (see: 
http://www.britishcouncil.org/organisation/structure/status ).  
3.1.2 Delivery location for goods and/or services: the British Council offices in London: 
British Council 
1 Redman Place 
Stratford Cross 
London, E20 1JQ 
3.1.3 Duration: 1 year contract with an option for up to 2 six months extensions (maximum length of the 
contract, 2 years) 
3.1.4 Contractual terms:  As set out at Annex 1 (“ Contract ”).  By submitting a Proposal, you are 
agreeing to be bound by the terms of this RFP and the Contract without further negotiation or amendment. 
In the event that the chosen service provider is operating as a Sole Trader or through a Personal Service 
Company, the British Council retain the right to issue specific contractual terms and conditions, in order to 
take account of this status. If you plan to submit a bid as a Sole Trader or Personal Service Company 
please contact maria.matassebastia@britishcouncil.org  for a copy of the specific terms.  Once the Contract 
is awarded, there will be no changes allowed to the Contract (except in accordance with the provisions of 
the Contract).  Any clarification questions in relation to any aspect of this Procurement Process and the 
associated documentation should be submitted in accordance with the process set out in paragraph 12 
(Clarification Requests ).  Only changes which relate to the correction of ambiguity or manifest error in 
relation to the terms of the Contract will be considered and, if necessary, the British Council may, when 
issuing its response to clarification questions, reissue Annex 1 to reflect such changes.  Any proposed 
amendments received from a potential supplier as part of its Proposal shall entitle the British Council to 
reject that Proposal and to disqualify that potential supplier from this Procurement Process.  
3.2 General Policy Requirements 
3.2.1  By submitting a Proposal, you confirm that you will, and that you will ensure that any consortium 
members and/or subcontractors will, comply with all applicable laws, codes of practice, statutory guidance 
and applicable British Council policies relevant to the goods and/or services being supplied. All relevant 
British Council policies that suppliers are expected to comply with can be found on the British Council 
website ( https://www.britishcouncil.org/organisation/transparency/policies ).  
3.3 General Proposal conditions (“Proposal Conditions”) 

[PAGE 3]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  3  
 3.3.1 Application of these Proposal Conditions – In participating in this Procurement Process and/or by 
submitting a Proposal it will be implied that you accept and will be bound by all the provisions of this RFP 
and its Annexes. Accordingly, Proposals should be made on the basis of and strictly in accordance with 
the requirements of this RFP.  
3.3.2 Third party verifications – Your Proposal is submitted on the basis that you consent to the British 
Council carrying out all necessary actions to verify the information that you have provided, and the analysis 
of your Proposal being undertaken by one or more third parties commissioned by the British Council for 
such purposes.  
3.3.3  Information provided to potential suppliers – Information that is supplied as part of this 
Procurement Process is supplied in good faith. The information contained in the RFP and the supporting 
documents and in any related written or oral communication is believed to be correct at the time of issue. 
No liability (save for fraudulent misrepresentation) is accepted for its accuracy, adequacy or completeness 
and no warranty is given as such.  
3.3.4  Potential suppliers to make their own enquires – You are responsible for analysing and reviewing 
all information provided to you as part of this Procurement Process and for forming your own opinions and 
seeking advice as you consider appropriate. The clarification process set out in paragraph 12 should be 
used for any queries in relation to this Procurement Process.  
3.3.5 Amendments to the RFP – At any time prior to the Response Deadline, the British Council may 
amend the RFP and if appropriate,  the Response Deadline shall, at the discretion of the British Council, 
be extended.  
3.3.6  Compliance of Proposal – Any goods and/or services offered should be on the basis of and strictly 
in accordance with the RFP (including, without limitation, any specification of the British Council’s 
requirements, these Proposal Conditions and the Contract) and all other documents and any clarifications 
or updates issued by the British Council as part of this Procurement Process. 
3.3.7 Compliance with the terms of the Contract – The successful supplier must comply with the 
Contract as set out in Annex 1 without any amendment (save as described in paragraph 3.1.4).  
3.3.8 Format of Proposal – Proposals must comprise the relevant documents as detailed by the British 
Council in Annex 2 (Supplier Proposal) completed in accordance with relevant all instructions. Any 
documents requested by the British Council must be completed in full. It is important that you read the RFP 
carefully before completing and submitting your Proposal. 
3.3.9 Modifications to Proposals once submitted – You may modify your Proposal prior to the Response 
Deadline by giving written notice to the British Council. Any modification should be clear and submitted as 
a completely new Proposal in accordance with Annex 2 (Supplier Proposal) and these Proposal 
Conditions.  

[PAGE 4]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  4  
 3.3.10 Disqualification – If you breach these Proposal Conditions, if there are any errors, omissions or 
material adverse changes relating to any information supplied by you at any stage in this Procurement 
Process, if any other circumstances set out in this RFP, and/or in any supporting documents, entitling the 
British Council to reject a Proposal apply and/or if you or your appointed advisers attempt: 
 to inappropriately influence this Procurement Process or fix or set the price for goods or services;  
 to enter into an arrangement with any other party that such party shall refrain from submitting a 
Proposal;  
 to enter into any arrangement with any other party (other than another party that forms part of your 
consortium bid or is your proposed sub-contractor) as to the prices submitted;  
 to collude in any other way;  
 to engage in direct or indirect bribery or canvassing by you or your appointed advisers in relation to 
this Procurement Process; or  
 to obtain information from any of the employees, agents or advisors of the British Council 
concerning this Procurement Process (other than as set out in these Proposal Conditions) or from 
another potential supplier or another Proposal,  
the British Council shall be entitled to reject your Proposal in full and to disqualify you from this 
Procurement Process. Subject to paragraph 3.3.14 below, by participating in this Procurement Process 
you accept that the British Council shall have no liability to a disqualified potential supplier in these 
circumstances. 
3.3.11 Proposal costs – You are responsible for obtaining all information necessary for preparation of your 
Proposal and for all costs and expenses incurred in preparation of the Proposal. Subject to the “Liability” 
Tender Condition below, you accept by your participation in this Procurement Process, including without 
limitation the submission of a Proposal, that you will not be entitled to claim from the British Council any 
costs, expenses or liabilities that you may incur in submitting a Proposal irrespective of whether or not your 
Proposal is successful.  
3.3.12 Rights to cancel or vary this Procurement Process – Nothing in this Procurement Process will bind 
the British Council to enter into any contractual or other arrangement with you or any other potential 
supplier. It is intended that the remainder of this Procurement Process will take place in accordance with 
the provisions of this RFP, but the British Council reserves the right to terminate, amend or vary (to 
include, without limitation, in relation to any timescales or deadlines) this Procurement Process by notice in 
writing. Subject to the “Liability” Tender Condition below, the British will have no liability for any losses, 
costs or expenses you incur as a result of such actions.  
3.3.13 Consortium Members and sub-contractors – It is your responsibility to ensure that any staff, 
consortium members, sub-contractors and advisers abide by these Proposal Conditions and the 
requirements of this RFP.  

[PAGE 5]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  5  
 3.3.14 Liability – Nothing in these Proposal Conditions is intended to exclude or limit the liability of the 
British Council in relation to fraud or in other circumstances where the British Council’s liability may not be 
limited under any applicable law.  
4 Confidentiality and Information Governance 
4.1 All information supplied to you by the British Council, including this RFP and all other documents 
relating to this Procurement Process, either in writing or orally, must be treated in confidence and not 
disclosed to any third party (save to your professional advisers, consortium members and/or sub-
contractors strictly for the purposes only of helping you to participate in this Procurement Process and/or 
prepare your Proposal) unless the information is already in the public domain or is required to be disclosed 
under any applicable laws. 
4.2 You shall not disclose, copy or reproduce any of the information supplied to you as part of this 
Procurement Process other than for the purposes of preparing and submitting a Proposal. There must be 
no publicity by you regarding the Procurement Process or the future award of any contract unless the 
British Council has given express written consent to the relevant communication.  
4.3 The British Council reserves the right to disclose all documents relating to this Procurement 
Process, including without limitation your Proposal, to any employee, third party agent, adviser or other 
third party involved in the Procurement Process in support of, and/or in collaboration with, the British 
Council. The British Council further reserves the right to publish the Contract once awarded and/or 
disclose information in connection with supplier performance under the Contract in accordance with any 
public sector transparency policies (as referred to below). By participating in this Procurement Process, 
you agree to such disclosure and/or publication by the British Council in accordance with such rights 
reserved by it under this paragraph.   
4.4 The Freedom of Information Act 2000 (“FOIA”), EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
2015, the Environmental Information Regulations 2004 (“EIR”), and public sector transparency policies 
apply to the British Council (together the “ Disclosure Obligations ”).   
4.5 You should be aware of the British Council’s obligations and responsibilities under the Disclosure 
Obligations to disclose information held by the British Council. Information provided by you in connection 
with this Procurement Process, or with any contract that may be awarded as a result of this exercise, may 
therefore have to be disclosed by the British Council under the Disclosure Obligations, unless the British 
Council decides that one of the statutory exemptions under the FOIA or the EIR applies.  
5 Proposal Validity 
5.1 Your Proposal must remain open for acceptance by the British Council for a period of 60 (sixty) 
days from the Response Deadline. A Proposal not valid for this period may be rejected by the British 
Council. 

[PAGE 6]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  6  
 6 Payment and Invoicing  
6.1  The British Council will pay correctly addressed and undisputed invoices within 30 days in 
accordance with the requirements of the Contract. Suppliers to the British Council must ensure 
comparable payment provisions apply to the payment of their sub-contractors and the sub-contractors of 
their sub-contractors. General requirements for an invoice for the British Council include: 
 A description of the good/services supplied is included. 
 The British Council Purchase Order number is included. 
 It is sent electronically via email in PDF format to BC.Invoices@britishcouncil.org  
7 Specification   
 
SCOPE 
The British Council is committed to supporting international artists that work with technology. We view their 
work as critical both to technological innovation, and to ensuring that this innovation is equitable, inclusive, 
safe and environmentally sustainable. Our landmark publication Why Technology Needs Artists: 40 
international perspectives, built a compelling and illustrative body of evidence that highlighted how artists 
in the “Art and Tech” sector:  
 catalyse innovation across technology sectors,  
 contribute to growth in high-value, high-growth technologies, and  
 build resilience through approaches that foreground inclusivity, cultural specificity, public 
engagement and agency. 
 
Through their work, they offer structures, spaces and platforms that deepen trust, enable more sustainable 
futures, and create new market opportunities. Building on this, and using, inter alia, a pilot of four artist 
innovation commissions as a starting point, the British Council is seeking to appoint economic experts to:  
 
 Evaluate the strategic and economic returns of international artist-led innovation, both direct and 
indirect, 
 Build a robust evidence base to demonstrate how creative practice in Art and Tech sector serves 
as a high-value RD&I driver for equitable and sustainable technology, and 
 Develop a framework that enables us to begin to measure how this sector strengthens the 
structural, social and economic conditions that create and sustain peaceful societies and enable 
humanity to flourish 
 
Situating the British Council’s work in this area within a broader landscape of international communities of 
practice, the appointee will move beyond advocacy to provide a rigorous valuation of the "Art and Tech" 
sector, specifically focusing on: 
 
 Additionality & Market Failure: Quantifying where future British Council intervention addresses 
gaps that private venture capital or more established modes of R&D funding overlook. 

[PAGE 7]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  7  
  Human Capital Development: Measuring how these and similar commissions across the sector 
enhance the "absorptive capacity" and agility of the global creative workforce. 
 Knowledge & Innovation Spillovers: Quantifying how artist-led prototyping generates "transferable 
IP" and ethical frameworks that de-risk future technological investment. 
 
This work will provide the economic rationale to support long-term planning, partnership development, and 
future portfolio investment. 
 
We envisage that this will be a 9 to12 month commission commencing September/October 2026.  
 
BACKGROUND 
In 2025, the British Council published its long-anticipated report, “Why Technology Needs Artists,” 
demonstrating not only that artist-led innovation contributes directly to advances in technology, but that it 
does so in ways that ‘resist bias, prioritise sustainability…decentralise the tools that are transforming our 
world’ (WTNA, p.5), reassigning agency to communities whose needs “big tech” might otherwise fail serve. 
To showcase these findings through practice, we have commissioned four new works by international 
artists from Argentina, China, Senegal and the UK to create pieces that: 
 advance technology 
 create new knowledge and insights 
 engage diverse audiences in complex technologies 
 prototype tools and technologies that are human-centric and culturally diverse 
The British Council is considering how best to build on both the Report and commissions. Developing the 
tools and methods to articulate their economic value is a first step to determining how we do so.  
 
ROLE 
We are seeking an economist or strategic researcher to conduct a mixed-methods analysis that evidences 
the multi-dimensional economic returns  of the international art and technology sector to the UK.  
The role holder(s) will collaborate with the British Council’s Digital Innovation Team and international Arts 
leads to translate creative practice into Green Book-aligned metrics . This will involve direct engagement 
with artists and tech-partners to evidence "human capital" development and innovation "spillovers" that 
build favourability towards the UK. 
The ideal candidate will have substantial experience in economic appraisal and evaluation (HMT Green 
Book) within the cultural sector and be familiar with the current RD&I funding lanscape.  
 
They must demonstrate knowledge of current UK government priorities—specifically those relating to 
the Creative Industries, DSIT (Department for Science, Innovation and Technology),  DCMS (Department 
for Culture, Media and Sport),  and international cultural engagement . A sophisticated understanding of 

[PAGE 8]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  8  
 the global funding landscape for "Art and Tech" and the ability to articulate market failure and 
opportunities for  additionality  are essential.  
 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 Green Book Valuation Modelling : Develop and apply a robust methodology to quantify the 
economic value of artist-led innovation, specifically measuring innovation spillovers  (knowledge, 
product, and network) and strategic option value . 
 Additionality & Market Failure Analysis : Produce a gap analysis and investment framework that 
identifies critical market failures where British Council intervention provides the 
highest additionality  and avoids "deadweight" loss. 
 M&E System Integration : Map and integrate these economic metrics into existing British Council 
and FCDO monitoring and evaluation frameworks to ensure a unified approach to 
measuring Return on Influence (ROI) . 
 Integration into British Council’s corporate prosperity framework : Map and integrate these 
metrics into the British Council’s corporate prosperity framework. 
 Field Data Collection & Evidence Verification : Engage with artist teams and tech partners to 
collect primary data, verify "human-centric" innovation claims, and sense-check economic findings 
against real-world practice. 
 Counterfactual Analysis : Author a comprehensive technical report and executive briefing that 
articulates the methodology, findings, and the economic risks associated with non-
intervention . 
 Investment Consultation : Act as a technical advisor on the future direction of commissions, 
ensuring creative and operational strategies are designed to maximise fiscal and soft power 
returns. 
 
DELIVERABLES 
 Economic Valuation Toolkit:  A robust, Green Book-aligned methodology for assigning fiscal 
value to artist-led innovation, including specific metrics for multipliers, strategic option value, 
and innovation spillovers.  
 Gap Analysis & Investment Framework:  A strategic report identifying high-impact opportunities 
where public intervention yields the highest Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR)  and addresses critical 
market failures. 
 M&E Integration:  Alignment of new economic metrics with existing British Council and HMG 
monitoring and evaluation frameworks to ensure consistent reporting of Return on Influence 
(ROI). 
 Technical Research Report:  A comprehensive evidence base detailing the commissions' impact 
on human capital and international trade connectivity.  

[PAGE 9]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  9  
  Investment Slide Deck:  A high-level briefing for internal and external stakeholders 
(Treasury/FCDO) summarizing findings, future recommendations, and the economic risks of 
non-intervention.  
 
PREFERRED EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS 
 
Essential: 
 Green Book Economic Valuation : Proven experience of applying HM Treasury Green 
Book methods, including for valuing non-market goods in the arts, culture, and heritage sectors. 
 Economic Modelling (Spillovers & Option Value) : Proven ability to quantify complex economic 
concepts like innovation spillovers , strategic option value, and multiplier effects within the 
creative economy. 
 Mixed-Methods Research : Mastery of both quantitative data analysis and qualitative research 
(interviews, case studies) to capture the impact of artist-led innovation. 
 Policy Alignment : Deep knowledge of UK government priorities regarding the Creative 
Industries , international cultural engagement, and R&D/Innovation policy. 
 ODA & International Development : Understanding of Official Development Assistance 
(ODA) frameworks and the nuances of measuring economic welfare in low- to middle-income 
countries. 
 Investment Framework Development : Experience in conducting gap analyses and building 
strategic investment frameworks that align with British Council and government priorities. 
 Technical Writing : The ability to translate rigorous economic data into accessible reports and 
slide decks for high-level stakeholders and policy makers. 
Desired: 
 Art and Tech Sector Literacy : A strong working knowledge of the global "Art and Tech" 
landscape, including familiarity with themes like AI ethics, decentralised tools, and sustainable 
tech. 
 Stakeholder Diplomacy : Experience engaging directly with artists and creative practitioners  to 
"sense-check" economic data without losing the nuances of their creative practice. 
 Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) : Familiarity with designing metrics that plug directly into existing 
institutional M&E frameworks (specifically those used by the British Council or FCDO). 
 Innovation Funding Expertise : A sophisticated understanding of the current funding landscape 
for intersectional work (Arts/Science/Tech) and where public vs. private investment sits. 
 Cross-Cultural Competency : Experience working within an international network to deliver 
research that accounts for cultural specificity  and diverse global perspectives . 
 

[PAGE 10]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  10  
 The Contractor(s) will be expected to work remotely, with occasional travel into London (expenses to 
be agreed in advance and reimbursed), and provide their own equipment to carry out the work. 
 
8  Mandatory Requirements / Constraints  
8.1 As part of your Proposal, you must confirm that you meet the mandatory requirements / 
constraints, if any, as set out in the British Council’s specification forming part of this RFP. Failure to 
comply with any mandatory requirements or constraints shall entitle the British Council to reject a 
Proposal.  
9 Key background documents  
9.1 Further relevant background documents / information may be provided to potential suppliers as an 
Annex to this RFP and/or by way of the issue of additional documents / links to additional information / 
documents. Please view list of Annexes at the end of this document. 
10 Timescales 
10.1  Subject to any changes notified to potential suppliers by the British Council in accordance with the 
Proposal Conditions, the intended timescales applicable to this Procurement Process are:  
 
Activity  Date / time 
RFP Issued to bidding suppliers 03/08/2026 
Deadline for clarification questions ( Clarification Deadline )  31/08/2026 at 16.00 UK time  
British Council to respond to clarification questions 04/09/2026 at 16.00 UK time  
Deadline for submission of Proposals by potential suppliers 
(Response Deadline )  10/09/2026 at 16.00 UK time  
Clarification/negotiation stage  21 to 25/09/2026 
Final Decision Week from 28/09/2026 to 
02/10/2026 
Contract concluded with winning supplier Between 05/10/2026 and 
16/10/2026  
Contract start date As soon as the contract has 
been signed 
 
11  Instructions for Responding 
11.1 The documents that must be submitted to form your Proposal are listed at Part [2] (Submission 
Checklist) of Annex 2 (Supplier Proposal) to this RFP. All documents required as part of your Proposal 

[PAGE 11]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  11  
 should be submitted to the British Council’s e-Tendering portal hosted at 
https://tap.tcsapps.com/tap2/#/bc-supplier-registration  (first time log in) or 
https://tap.tcsapps.com/tap2/#/login-supplier?tenant=BritishCouncil  by the Response Deadline, as set out 
in the Timescales section of this RFP.  
11.2 You agree to register a valid supplier account on the UK government Central Digital Platform 
(CDP). Such registration will be completed upon request by the British Council and prior to contract award. 
You acknowledge and accept that failure to complete registration prior to contract award may result in 
withdrawal of any award decision.  
11.3 The following requirements should be complied with when submitting your Proposal in response to 
this RFP: 
 Please ensure that you send your submission in good time to prevent issues with technology – late 
Proposals may be rejected by the British Council. 
 Do not submit any additional supporting documentation with your Proposal except where 
specifically requested to do so. PDF, JPG, PPT, Word and Excel formats can be used for any 
additional supporting documentation (other formats should not be used without the prior written 
approval of the British Council).  
 All attachments/supporting documentation should be provided separately to your main Proposal 
document, clearly labelled and cross-referenced to the Proposal as relevant. 
 If you submit a generic policy / document you must indicate the page and paragraph reference that 
is relevant to a particular part of your Proposal.  
 Unless otherwise stated as part of this RFP or its Annexes, all Proposals should be in the format of 
the relevant British Council requirement with your response to that requirement inserted 
underneath.  
 Where supporting evidence is requested as ‘or equivalent’ you must demonstrate such 
equivalence as part of your Proposal. 
 Any deliberate alteration of a British Council requirement as part of your Proposal will invalidate 
your Proposal to that requirement and for evaluation purposes you shall be deemed not to have 
responded to that particular requirement. 
 Responses should be concise, unambiguous, and should directly address the requirement stated. 
 Your Proposal to the RFP requirements and pricing will be incorporated into the Contract, as 
appropriate.  
12  Clarification Requests 
12.1  All clarification requests should be submitted to British Council’s e-Tendering portal hosted at 
https://tap.tcsapps.com/tap2/#/bc-supplier-registration  (first time log in) or 
https://tap.tcsapps.com/tap2/#/login-supplier?tenant=BritishCouncil  by the Clarification Deadline, as set out 
in the Timescales section of this RFP. The British Council is under no obligation to respond to clarification 
requests and will response if the question is appropriate and received before the Clarification Deadline.  

[PAGE 12]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  12  
 12.2 Any clarification requests should clearly reference the appropriate paragraph in the RFP 
documentation and, to the extent possible, should be aggregated rather than sent individually. 
12.3 The British Council reserves the right to issue any clarification request made by you, and the 
response, to all potential suppliers unless you expressly require it to be kept confidential at the time the 
request is made. If the British Council considers the contents of the request not to be confidential, it will 
inform you and you will have the opportunity to withdraw the clarification query prior to the British Council 
responding to all potential suppliers. 
12.4 The British Council may at any time request further information from potential suppliers to verify or 
clarify any aspects of their Proposal or other information they may have provided. Should you not provide 
supplementary information or clarifications to the British Council by any deadline notified to you, your 
Proposal may be rejected in full and you may be disqualified from this Procurement Process. 
13  Evaluation Criteria 
13.1 You will have your Proposal evaluated as set out below:  
Stage 1:   Proposals will be checked to ensure that they have been completed correctly and all necessary 
information has been provided.   responses correctly completed with all relevant information being 
provided and all mandatory requirements as outlined in Section 8 met will proceed to Stage 2.  Any 
Proposal not correctly completed in accordance with the requirements of this RFP and/or containing 
omissions may be rejected at this point.  Where a Proposal is rejected at this point it will automatically be 
disqualified and will not be further evaluated.  
↓ 
Stage 2:   If a bidder succeeds in passing Stages 1 of the evaluation, then it will have its Proposal 
evaluated in accordance with the evaluation methodology set out below.  
13.2 Award Criteria – Responses from potential suppliers will be assessed to determine the most 
economically advantages proposal using the following criteria and weightings and will be assessed entirely 
on your response submitted:  
 
Criteria Weighting  
Quality 20% 
Methodology and Approach 30% 
Commercial 50% 
  
 
 
13.3 Scoring Model – Proposals will be subject to an initial review at the start of Stage 2 of the 
evaluation process. Any Proposals not meeting mandatory requirements or constraints (if any) will be 
rejected in full at this point and will not be assessed or scored further.  Proposals not so rejected will be 

[PAGE 13]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  13  
 scored by an evaluation panel appointed by the British Council for all criteria other than Commercial using 
the following scoring model: 
 
Points Interpretation 
10 Excellent – Overall the response demonstrates that the bidder meets all areas of the 
requirement and provides all of the areas evidence requested in the level of detail 
requested.  This, therefore, is a detailed excellent response that meets all aspects of the 
requirement leaving no ambiguity as to whether the bidder can meet the requirement.  
7 Good – Overall the response demonstrates that the bidder meets all areas of the 
requirement and provides all of the areas of evidence requested, but contains some 
trivial omissions in relation to the level of detail requested in terms of either the response 
or the evidence. This, therefore, is a good response that meets all aspects of the 
requirement with only a trivial level ambiguity due the bidders failure to provide all 
information at the level of detail requested.  
5 Adequate – Overall the response demonstrates that the bidder meets all areas of the 
requirement, but not all of the areas of evidence requested have been provided. This, 
therefore, is an adequate response, but with some limited ambiguity as to whether the 
bidder can meet the requirement due to the bidder’s failure to provide all of the evidence 
requested. 
3 Poor – The response does not demonstrate that the bidder meets the requirement in 
one or more areas. This, therefore, is a poor response with significant ambiguity as to 
whether the bidder can meet the requirement due to the failure by the bidder to show 
that it meets one or more areas of the requirement. 
0 Unacceptable – The response is non-compliant with the requirements of the RFP 
and/or no response has been provided.  
 
13.4 Commercial Evaluation – Your “Overall Price” (as calculated in accordance with requirements of 
Annex 3 (Pricing Approach) for the goods and/or services will be evaluated by the evaluation panel for the 
purposes of the commercial evaluation, further information on this approach may be available in Annex 3. 
In the event that any prices are expressed as being subject to any pricing assumptions, qualifications or 
indexation not provided for by the British Council as part of the pricing approach, the British Council may 
reject the full Proposal at this point. The British Council may also reject any Proposal where the Overall 
Price for the goods and/or services is considered by the British Council to be abnormally low following the 
relevant processes set out under the procurement rules.  A maximum offer score of 10 will be awarded to 
the Proposal offering the lowest “Overall Price”. Other Proposals will be awarded a mark by application of 

[PAGE 14]
British Council RFP – Revised May 2022  14  
 the following formula:  (Lowest Overall Price/Overall Price being evaluated) x 10 (rounded to two decimal 
places) = commercial score.   
13.5 Moderation and application of weightings – The evaluation panel appointed for this Procurement 
Process will meet to agree and moderate scores for each award criteria. Final scores in terms of a 
percentage of the overall Proposal score will be obtained by applying the relevant weighting factors set out 
as part of the award criteria table above. The percentage scores for each award criteria will be 
amalgamated to give a percentage score out of 100.  
13.6 The Winning Proposal(s) - The winning Proposal shall be the Proposal scoring the highest 
percentage score out of 100 when applying the above evaluation methodology, which is also supported by 
any required verification evidence (to include, without limitation, any updated information)] obtained by the 
Authority relating to any self-certification or other requirements referred to at any time in this Procurement 
Process.  
List of Annexes forming part of this RFP (issued as separate documents): 
Annex 1 – Terms and Conditions of Contract 
Annex 2 – Supplier Proposal 
Annex 3 – Pricing Approach 
 
 