
[PAGE 1]
 
 
 
 
1 
 
Create Growth Programme  - Full Application Form  
 
 
Please read the guidance for applicants  document in full before completing the 
application.  
 
 
Lead organ isation: Lancashire Enterprise Partnership  (LEP)  
 
 
Consortium members  This is a partnership application – the partners are listed 
under Q3.3  
 
 
 
1. Eligibility:  
 Only full applications from shortlisted applicants invited to apply by DCMS will be 
assessed. If you are invited to submit a full application, this is not a guarantee that 
the application will be successful.  
 
Please confirm the following:  
 
1. That you have been invited by DCMS as a shortlisted applicant to submit a full 
application to the Create Growth Programme.  
 
     x Yes         ☐ No 
 
 
2. Local Area Partnership  Details  
 
2.1 Lead Organisation name:  Lancashire Enterprise Partnership (LEP)  
  
2.2 Lead Organisation address:  Christchurch Precinct, County Hall, PO BOX 78,  
Fishergate, Preston   
  
2.3 Lead Organisation postcode:  PR1 8XJ  
 

[PAGE 2]
 
 
 
 
2 
2.4 Main contact name:  Andy Walker  
2.5 Main contact job title:  Head of Service Business Growth, Lancashire 
County  
Council (LCC) / Lancashire Local Enterprise 
Partnership (LEP)  
 
2.6 Main contact email:  andy.walker@lancashire.gov.uk  
2.7 Main contact phone 
number(s):  01772 535629   
 
2.8 Consortium members - 
details of all organisations 
which are members of the 
consortium: (if applicable , i.e. 
only list partners in this section if 
applying as a consortium) . This is a partnership application – the partners are 
listed under Q3.3  
 
 
 
2.9   Since 01/04/2017, has your organisation been in receipt of other grant funding 
from DCMS? If so, please give details of what this is for, the time period it covers and the 
team you liaised with. In the case of a consortium bid, this applies to both l ead 
organisations and consortium members. As part of our due diligence checks, we may 
request feedback from other DCMS teams.  
 
Failure to provide this information may delay / affect your application.  
Organisation
(s) receiving 
funding  DCMS 
Funding 
Source  Details  Period  DCMS Team you 
liaised with  
LEP 
Lancashire 
Skills Hub  Digital Skills 
Partnership  £187,500  
 
  April 2019 
– March 
2023  Digital Skills 
Partnership team 
in DCMS led by 
Gary Coyle  
LEP 
Lancashire 
Skills Hub  Digital Skills 
Innovation 
Fund  £274,000  2018 -2019  Digital Skills 
Partnership team 
in DCMS led by 
Gary Coyle  
 

[PAGE 3]
 
 
 
 
3 
 
3. Proposal  
 
3.1 Characteristics of place : Local creative businesses and infrastructure:  
Local area partnerships should demonstrate that they have a large enough cluster (or 
group of clusters) of creative businesses with suitable growth prospects to enable 
meaningful engagement with and impact from the programme and there is sufficient 
local infrastructure to support businesses beyond the programme. Please provide details 
on the following using available evidence and research to support your response:  
● Describe the creative sector in the region, including the number of creative 
businesses and the creative sub -sectors covered by these businesses. For 
information on the sub -sector s covered under the Creative Industries please refer 
to those listed in the DCMS Sectors Economic Estimates . Please specify what 
data and sources you have used to inform your response.  
● How many creative businesses in the region do you estimate engaging as part of 
the programme? Which creative sub -sectors are covered by these businesses? 
Please specify what data and sources you have used to inform this estimate.  
● How do these businesses meet the description of ‘high -growth potential’? Please 
specify what sources you have used to inform this.  
● Which existing or future regional support offers (both Creative Industries -specific 
and sector agnostic) are present in the regio n that businesses could be referred 
to or could provide feeder or follow -on support? How could these be aligned to 
support the Create Growth Programme? This could include but is not limited to 
growth hubs, innovation accelerators and regional business supp ort or funding 
programmes.  
● What existing or potential investor communities and networks are active in the 
region that could be engaged as part of the programme (eg. Angel networks, 
Regional funds)? If there are no existing or easily identifiable investor n etworks in 
the region, what broader national and international investor networks exist that 
creative businesses in the region could be connected with?  
THE SECTOR IN THE REGION  
Lancashire’s creative economy accounts for 4,500 businesses and 36,000 jobs - 6% of 
Lancashire's workforce.1 Over half are employed in the fast -growing IT, Software and 
Computer Services followed by Advertising & Marketing, Music, Performing and Visual 
Arts. Lancashire's multi -centred rural geography provides challenges around know ledge -
sharing and idea cross fertilisation: although 40% of the county’s creative enterprises 
are located in Preston, Chorley and Blackburn, analysis of the location of the creative 
workforce reaffirms its distribution across the county.  
 
 
1 Interdepartmental Business Register, April 2021 per Lancashire Economic Partnership  

[PAGE 4]
 
 
 
 
4 
More in depth analysis reveals th e strengths within and variances between different 
cultural and creative domains:  
 
• There are 610 businesses in arts disciplines (artistic creation and operation of 
cultural venues) and 555 businesses in film, television,  and music.2 
• Since April 2021, a further 980 new, active creative businesses have been 
registered in Lancashire, a third of them in IT, but with significant increases in 
Advertising & Marketing (180), Music, Performing and Visual Arts (175), Design 
(70) and Film and  Television (70).3 This represents a considerable “bounce back” 
from the previous year, in which GVA of Lancashire’s Arts and Recreation 
businesses (SIC section R) fell by 26%.  
• Analysis of LinkedIn provides confirmation of the distributed nature of  
Lancashire’s creative workforce. The main towns and cities of Preston, Blackburn 
with Darwen, Lancaster, Blackpool and Burnley together are home to only 40% of 
the creative workforce, with no single urban area housing more than Blackpool’s 
3,400 creative worker s.4 This suggest that more than  20,000 creative employees, 
freelance and self -employed workers and artists  are resident in market towns , 
villages,  and hamlets across rural and coastal areas of the county . 
 
Evidence of the dispersal of creative enterprises and employees highlights the need for 
an approach to creative industries growth which differs in some fundamental ways from 
agglomeration -based mo dels and notions of a bohemian , urban  and culturally cohesive 
“Creative Class ” prevalent in the development of clusters in cities and larger 
conurbations.  
 
The need amongst Lancashire’s creatives to find other ways to collaborate and share 
knowledge is reflected in the s trong and dynamic partnerships and networks that exist 
across the county.  
The last two decades have  also seen sustained and coordinated attempts by a range of 
public and university actors to address the lack of capacity and connectedness within 
the sector  – including the formation of Creative Lancashire in 2005 as a partnership 
between the County Council and  unitary authorities, Arts Council England, U CLan and 
Lancaster universities and the (now defunct) regional deve lopment agency , and the  
continuing support for its role as a strategic development agency from a range of public, 
educational and industry part ners. The outcomes of this include:  
 
2 The Fifth Sector (2022). Analysis of Companies House data via Beauhurst, 12 August 2022.  
3 ibid 
4 Curator Technologies/The Fifth Sector (2022). Analysis of LinkedIn data, 1 August 2022.  

[PAGE 5]
 
 
 
 
5 
• Increased visibility for the sector , including through events with national 
significance such as the Blackburn -based National Festival of Making , British 
Textile Biennial (Pennine Lancashire), and Vintage by the Sea (More cambe) , 
whose creative direct or, design impresario Wayne Hemingway, is one of the best -
known members of Lancashire’s creative diaspora, which also includes 
Aardman’s Nick Park and designer Ben Casey  (founder of The Chase) , Mary 
Anne Hobbs (DJ and music jou rnalist) and Jeanette Winterson CBE (writer).  
• Emerging strengths in television  and digital marketing (which builds on a legacy 
of UC Lan’s renowned graphic design course and continuing support for talent 
development) . 
• Lancaster University has supported the growth of over 1,500 digital content 
businesses since the opening of its InfoLab21 incubator,  in 200 5. 
• Lancaster Institute for the Contemporary Arts (LICA) encompasses Lancaster  
University ’s teaching and research acti vities in Art, Architecture, Design, Film and 
Theatre  and research centres including ImaginationLancaster , an internationally 
respected major project with global insights into future trends and technologies in 
design and creative technology.  
• The regenerati on of historic theatre and music venues including the Winter 
Gardens in Morecambe and The Grand in Blackpool . 
• An ambitious and innovative public -private initiative, the Lancashire Digital Skills 
Partnership, which has made progress both in addressing the g ender imbalance 
in the workforce and in closing gaps both in supply of talent and updating 
business skills.  
• The emergence of micro -clusters of digital and creative businesses centred on 
co-working spaces – including Strawberry Fields in Chorley, Society O ne in 
Preston, Fraser House in Lancaster and The Landmark in Burnley.  
Creative Lancashire supports several sector specific networks include, Conversations in 
Creativity, SoundBytes (supporting sustainable careers in music) and ScreenHub 
(previously Screen Opps), and work alongside Digital Lancashire and Arts Lancashire, 
Lancashire Cultural Network, Lancashire Digital Skills Partnership, local cultural 
framework/investment boards, as well as five Local Cultural Education Partnerships to 
facilitate collaborat ions across the county and build capacity for Lancashire’s creative 
and cultural sector.  
However, the growth ambitions of cultural and creative businesses in Lancashire have 
been constrained by structural shortcomings of a “post -industrial” economy in whic h the 
prevailing models are still based on old manufacturing supply chains. The county has 
historically exported much of its best creative talent and businesses with growth 
potential to neighbouring metropolitan areas, particularly Manchester, where busine sses 

[PAGE 6]
 
 
 
 
6 
and creatives enjoy a wider range of more mature and better capitalised networks for 
content creation and distribution. Simultaneous, significant investment  in the cultural and 
creative economy of neighbouring metropolitan areas has “drowned out” the incremental 
improvements achieve by local actions.  
It is less the case that private and institutional investors have a poor image of 
Lancashire, than that they are simply unaware of the opportunities it presents. Create 
Growth would present Lancashire with the opportunity to make a step change in that 
perception , to address coordination of creative supply chains and to leapfrog the linear 
progress toward increasing  private investment by presenting the alignment of the 
county’s cultural and creative sectors with an exciting alternative model of sustainab le 
investment  and inclusive growth: the “Preston Model ”. 
Community Wealth Building  (as economists would call  the Preston Model ) observes 
four key principles:  
• Harnessing the power of procurement from anchor institutions to secure 
investment in local supply chains and local economic competitiveness  
• Maximising the benefits of investment in a skilled workforce  
• Using anchor institution assets to lever in additional investment, to encourage the 
development of new businesses and support new methods of financial 
intermediation  
• Helping people feel ownership of assets and decision -making processes  
Their successful application by 12 public and private sector “anchor” institutions , which 
together account for a significant proportion of the Lancashire economy,  has increa sed 
local GDP by 12%.  
As well as delivering growth to individual businesses, Lancashire’s Create Growth 
business model will look to build a legacy of capacity across the county so that local 
cultural, creative,  and digital content businesses can increase and diversify their revenue  
from increasing coordination  of micro -clusters of digital and creative businesses  and 
benefit from increased community wealth to attract and retain talent needed to plug skills 
gaps a nd shortages.  
It complements  the Institute of Technology network programme, which aims to increase 
knowledge -sharing and development of STE AM skillsets through collaboration between 
the county’s FE colleges and universities, and a County -wide innovation pr ogramme 
which aims to amplify networking activity to accelerate the growth of and coordination 
between emerging “micro -clusters’ of digital and creative businesses in co -working 
spaces - which can then act as “mini anchors” for creative supply chains and p rovide a 

[PAGE 7]
 
 
 
 
7 
proof of concept to act as a beacon for sector -specialist investors and to stimulate the 
interest of local investors who have no previous experience of the sector.  
Lancashire’s Create Growth programme offers the opportunity to accelerate the proce ss 
of building scale and resilience amongst the county’s cultural and creative business by 
aggregating existing sector and educational assets to create environments for growth. 
This will allow delivery partners to better meet the unmet needs of the creativ e sector, 
start to slow and then reverse the “brain drain” of talent and diversify the cultural and 
creative workforce to better reflect the Lancashire’s demographic make up, to attract 
new and greater private sector investment and to overcome its sense of  isolation and 
fragmentation by highlighting its logistical advantages, as a county with both a strong 
internal market  for creative and digital services in high growth sectors such as 
Advanced Manufacturing and Low Carbon Energy, and one that is well conn ected to 
markets both regional (Manchester, Liverpool and Leeds are all within an hour’s road 
and rail travel time) and national (the M6 motorway bisects the county, which also 
boasts two West Coast Main Line stations )  
HOW MANY BUSINESSES WILL TAKE PART ? 
The programme will target a minimum of 100 high -growth cultural and creative 
businesses across four linked projects , each of which differentiates between the supply 
chain relationships, market and investment opportunities that pertain in business models 
across the creative economy:  
Project name and descriptor  # of high 
growth 
businesses  Evidence of demand  
Coastal Creatives will focus on 
established businesses and artists 
who need support and industry 
connections (promotion, business 
skills and access to distribution) to 
monetise existing and new IP  in 
new music, screen , theatre and 
dance.  
 
The work of the two Creative 
Growth Officers (dedicated high 
growth advisor roles within Creative 
Lancashire , funded  through the 
Create Growth programme)  in 
support of this and the other 
projects  will also embed additional 30 (across 
four cohorts)  Covid Recovery measures 
undertaken in partnership with 
the Music Venues Association, 
in particular the successful effort 
to save Waterloo Music Venue 
from closure, identified a cohort 
of music -based businesses with 
growth aspirations; the recent 
relaunch of The Grand theatre in 
Blackpool, the growth of location 
filming in Lancashire, previous 
research into the feasibility of  a 
national comedy museum, and 
consultation with a larger 
business providing production 
services to the live events sector 

[PAGE 8]
 
 
 
 
8 
capacity for the emerging Screen 
Lancashire proposition for 
television, film, animation and 
related content businesses. 
Informed by the Screen Yorkshire 
investment model and existing 
partners hips with Film Hub North, 
Screen Skills, Creative UK, and 
underpinned by a new dedicated 
Rosebud (Lancashire CC 
investment vehicle) loan fund to 
support development of screen -
based IP, this aims to establish 
Lancashire as a hub for productions 
with a compelling proposition to 
attract wider investment, both for 
incoming productions and 
indigenous producers.  
  regionally, nationally and 
internationally have together 
built a profile of potentially 
eligible businesses in film and 
television, m usic and performing 
arts. 
 
Increase in number of location 
shooting days in Lancashire 
(supported by destination 
marketing by Marketing 
Lancashire) and Creative UK 
evidence of increasing enquiries 
for location filming in the county.  
 
Cultural Capital devel ops previous 
capacity -building support for 
existing venue -based and cultural 
organisations with established 
revenue streams and (in many 
cases) with robust business plans 
for continued growth and 
diversification of income streams to 
2027.  It will support o rganisations to 
evolve their  organisational 
development and governance 
structures to achiev e investment 
principles prioritised within Let’s 
Create , notably  inclusive growth  
and progression toward net zero.  
 25 (across 
four cohorts)  Creative Lancashire provided 
business planning support for  25 
applications for Arts Council 
England National Portfolio 
Organisation status in 2022 from 
Lancashire -based cultural 
organisations; whether  those 
applications all succeed (the 
county currently has 11 NPOs ), 
these are businesses with an 
express ambition to grow. We 
have identified as many cultural 
organisations as possible  again 
which would meet the eligibility 
criteria and may also be a 
source of demand for specialist 
high growth support.  
Pennine Originals leverages the 
county’s legacy of textile 
manufacturing businesses (many of 
them diverse -led) as a catalyst for 
growth of higher value -add and 
increased export from collaboration 
with creative businesses in design 
of textiles, homewares an d high -25 (across 
four cohorts)  Previous schemes offering artist 
placements within host 
manufacturing businesses have 
been fully subscribed and have 
led to the development of 
profitable new products; British  
Textile Biennial, the National 
Festival of Making, Super Slow 

[PAGE 9]
 
 
 
 
9 
quality printed goods, and their 
commercialisation via online and 
export markets, drawing on 
observed entrepreneurial 
behaviours amongst the large 
South Asian diaspora community in 
towns and rural areas across East 
Lancashire.  
 
A focus on revenue di versification 
will build on the region’s strength in 
technical textiles and spillovers into 
other high value sectors, such as 
aerospace and automotive.  
 Way (the Creative People and 
Places project for East 
Lancashire with which  this 
project will be located), 
consultation around the 
emerging vision for  a Pennine 
Lancashire Linear Park and 
client engagement through 
initiatives such as Made Smarter 
(which promotes digital and 
“Industry 4.0” applications to the 
sub-regional manufact uring 
base) all provide evidence of 
demand from both creative and 
manufacturing businesses.  
Digital Content Superhighway 
aims for a “virtual” agglomeration of 
existing  digital content businesses 
in co -working spaces strung along 
the M6 corridor through a 
programme which will promote 
collaborative R&D, supply chain 
development and adoption of new 
technologies (including AI and 
AR/VR) in B2B and direct -to-
consumer content and 
applications).  30 (across 
four cohorts)  This project represents an 
identifiable hig h growth strand to 
meet demand for diversification 
and growth expressed through 
the Digital Lancashire  network , 
which has an online directory of 
150 digital creative businesses 
across the county.  
 
 
High  Growth Potential:  
We will identify businesses  using the DCMS definition of high growth potential 
businesses as distinguished by one or more of the following  
● Turnover growth of 10% year -on-year over approximately 3 years (including either 
prior to or during the pandemic ).  
● Employing a minimum of 2 people over the last two years (full -time, part-time,  or 
freelance ).  
● Created a revenue generating product, launched a new platform or service or reached 
a market of scale.   
● Generated a sales revenue in the last 2  years  

[PAGE 10]
 
 
 
 
10 
In addition, the diagnostic process will also be structured to allow greater discretion in 
the selection of IP -based businesses - particularly in “hit driven” sectors such as music, 
animation, computer games , screen content  and creative writing  for performance and 
publication  – any of which may show an earlier propensity for high growth without 
meeting the specific gateway criteria, which would be more easily achieved by a service 
or product business than one developing original content . This mechani c will facilitate 
the identification  for support though the four hubs.  
Coordination between projects and customer relationship management of the 
businesses will be facilitated by two new Creative Growth Officer posts within Creative 
Lancashire, who will a lso help manage and promote the programme and related 
networking activity and carry out initial diagnostic processes to determine eligibility of 
applicants.  
Each project will have capacity to address the growth needs of 25 -30 businesses in four 
cohorts ove r the two years; there will be flexibility to redistribute resource between 
projects should there be uneven demand across the programme.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS SUPPORT  OFFER  
Provider/  
Delivery 
organisation  Product  Target 
market  Method  Relationship to 
Create Growth  
UCLan  Lancashire 
Forum 
Creative  Lancashire -
based 
creative 
and digital 
SMEs  Leadership and 
business growth 
programme  Feeder – helps 
creative and digital 
SMEs identify 
growth 
opportunities  
CC Skil ls Creative 
Employment 
Programme  Young 
people  and 
new 
entrants  Careers advice 
and guidance, 
apprenticeships, 
and support for 
young people 
through a National 
Skills Academy 
network of industry 
and education 
supporters.  Strategic - long 
term pl anning to 
address skills gaps 
and shortages; 
strategi c 
relationships to 
national centres of 
excellence  
Creative 
Lancashire  The 
Creative 
Step (TCS)  Early -stage 
creative 
businesses  Plug gaps in 
mainstream 
support by Feeder  – TCS 
identifies growth 
propensity  and 

[PAGE 11]
 
 
 
 
11 
applying Design 
Thinking 
Methodologies . 
Adopts best 
practice  tools and 
techniques for 
creative 
businesses 
support , including 
Nesta's Creative 
Enterprise 
Programme 
delivered by British 
Council  supports 
development of 
high growth 
propositions  
Lancashire 
Digital Skills 
Partnership  Skills 
Bootcamp  Individual 
job seekers  intensive and 
flexible courses of 
up to 16 weeks  to 
build up sector 
specific skills , with 
a fast track to an 
interview with a 
local employer.  Increasing diversity 
and addressing 
gender imbalances 
in the creative 
workforce by 
encouraging 
applications from 
underrepresented 
and excluded 
groups  
Lancashire 
CC Boost  Start -up to 
scale -up 
businesses  Workshops, 
masterclasses, 
mentoring, 
coaching, peer 
networking  – Boost 
coordinates inputs 
of wider business 
support eco -
system of over 70 
unique services  Complementary - 
generic business 
and financial 
planning support  
Lancashire 
CC TwoZero  Scale -up 
business 
support  Demand -led and 
niche cohorts of 
businesses ( e.g., 
women -led 
businesses ) 
looking to grow 
20% year -on-year Follow -on - access 
to regional and 
national  funds and  
angel and VC 
networks ; peer -to-
peer networks of 
Lancashire 
entrepreneurs  

[PAGE 12]
 
 
 
 
12 
Lancashire 
CC Access to 
Finance  General 
business 
support  Free investment 
readiness support  
and training in  
finance skills : 
understanding 
financial 
statements, 
business planning, 
cashflow 
forecasting, digital 
accounting and 
funding options  Complementary - 
potential to identify 
and client manage 
investors with 
cultural and 
creative industries 
expertise  
Lancashire 
CC Rosebud  General 
business 
support  Loan fund  (£10k -
£100k)  with 
dedicated client 
support  Follow -on - source 
of debt finance  with 
lower barriers than 
some retail lenders  
 
Lancashire Digital Skills Partnership (LDSP ) has  been at the forefront of Skills Bootcamp 
development regionally and nationally, delivering a £3.5 m. Fast  Track Fund with Greater 
Manchester Combined A uthority  and DCMS including Bootcamps for creative 
organisations. This informed the development of the Na tional Skills Fund leading to 
further rounds of funding with a £1.25m project currently in progress in Lancashire , 
forming part of a feeder pipeline of growth activity in the creative sector.  
Create Growth will set up clear monitoring and reporting proces ses aligned to those 
developed for and refined through operation of Skills Bootcamps and Boost 
programmes.  
One of the positive, if unintended, outcomes of emergency financial support for 
businesses delivered through the p andemic (including business interru ption and “bounce 
back” loans) was that many micro - and small  businesses took on debt finance for the 
first time and through that developed an understanding of how it could be used to  
support development of new IP, products,  and services . This has increased propensity 
for growth and an appreciation of the relationship between investment and growth  
amongst some creative business owners in Lancashire.  
 
INVESTOR COMMUNITIES  
Lancashire is one of a handful of local authorities with an established bu siness loans 
scheme, providing loans from £10k upwards, focussed on developing long term 
relationships to support subsequent stages of growth. However, there is a market failure 

[PAGE 13]
 
 
 
 
13 
in the provision of “follow on” and scale up funding and low levels of demand for national 
specialist offers, such as Creative UK Creative Grow th Finance.  There are no specialist 
investor networks  for cultural and creative businesses in Lancashire  – one of the key 
objectives for the Create Growth programme is to work alongside the national 
investment fund provider to identify potential local investors and stimulate the 
development of an investor and referrals network.  
 
3.2 Need  
Local area partnerships should demonstrate that there is unmet demand for the 
programme and that it will build on and not duplicate existing activity in the region. 
Please provide details on the following using available evidence and research to support 
your response : 
● Describe the need for the programme in the region. Please explain how creative 
businesses are currently under -served by support offers and how the CGP 
package of business support, investor capacity building and finance support will 
specifically support the ir growth needs.  
● Please confirm that the programme does not duplicate other existing support 
offers in the region. Where there are similar programmes being delivered, such as 
business support for creative businesses, please explain how the Create Growth 
Programme will provide additional benefits to businesses and the investor 
community.  
Lancashire is the eighth largest of the 48 English counties and the largest without a 
population centre greater than 150,000. As such it is a model for much of Britain beyond 
the metropolitan hubs, with an economic mix of small towns, rural hinterland,  and 
coastal communities - a place shaped by  industrialisation and dramatically impacted by 
the demise of manufacturing and globalisation over the past fifty years, driving long -term 
socio -economic decline.  
  
A recent review (EKOS 2022 , in draft) notes the impact of these trends resulting in a 
reducti on of the average size of business with fewer large companies, more small and 
micro businesses and an increase in self -employment. However, it is home to some 
exciting, forward -looking  service and tech businesses and demonstrates a long tradition 
of creati ve industry teaching and support. The report identifies that mainstream business 
finance and advisory support now need to be redesigned  to meet the challenges of fresh 
growth.  
    
The lack of significant agglomeration of  knowledge -based enterprise s in Lancashire’s 
regional econom y has resulted in fragmentation , a continuing lack of critical mass and 
lack of  sector diversification and growth in value added and employment. This been 
exacerbated by the isolating effects of COVID -19, during which the outpu t of the 

[PAGE 14]
 
 
 
 
14 
county’s Arts and Recreation businesses fell by 26%, reversing a long trend of growth.5 
The report further cites evidence from the 2021 Lancashire LEP Finance Review Final 
Report and the 2022 NPIF Interim Assessment (Northern Powerhouse Investmen t Fund) 
that low levels of investment and growth are largely the result of a lack of demand.  
Lancashire SMEs can be seen to lack one or more aspects of confidence, growth focus, 
capability,  or credibility in accessing and critically, profitably using inves tment funding.  
Beyond the county’s NPOs, there are too few large cultural organisations which can 
deliver the scale, reach, agility,  and quality of cultural experiences enjoyed in other parts 
of the UK. This is reflected in evidence which shows that the arts and cultural sector in 
Lancashire was disproportionally badly affected by the pandemic, with a 26.5% fall in 
GVA compared to a 24 % fall nationally.6 
Empirically, smaller cultural organisations often lack both the strategic muscle required 
to give confidence to investors that the sector can scale up with minimal risks, and the 
capacity to experiment with new technology, new ways of reaching audiences, to utilise 
data and research, to generate innovative funding models.  
Presently, creative businesses are limited in growth opportunities due to several factors 
including limited sector -specific support programmes, investor networks, ski lls gaps and 
shortages , and retention of experienced staff (400 jobs currently vacant across creative 
sector). Research indicates there are hard -to-fill roles in digital marketing, graphic 
design, digital designers, game design and VR (LEP, 2020).   
  
Cons ultation to inform the LEP Digital Strategy7 indicated that across sectors including 
CreaTech, there were too many investors looking for short -term returns on consumer -
focused propositions. The overlap of 'digital' and creative sectors is significant ; the lack 
of clarity about what constitutes an opportunity for sustainable and inclusive growth in 
digital creative technologies and services  demonstrates the need to develop specialist 
investor networks with greater understanding of international trends and greater 
commitment to pursuing  different risk strategies when weighing creative  investment 
opportunities . 
What's distinctive about Lancs?  
 
Fragmented  
Lack of perception of supply chain  
Under capitalised  
Talent issue upstream and supply chain downstream  
 
5 Lancashire  Enterprise Partnership, 2022  
6 Lancashire Enterprise Partnership  
7 The Fifth Sector, 2022  

[PAGE 15]
 
 
 
 
15 
Current county finances not working – needs to be micro -financing for short periods  
Need better procurement from anchor institutions?  
The Preston Model – seen 12% growth  
No investor presences – old fami ly businesses  
 
No funnel for students to get into existing business and  no freelance work available to 
them and lure of other urban centres pull talent away  
 
NPOs not supported as well as in other areas  
 
Current county finance  structures  not working – businesses with growth aspirations and 
new IP need micro -financing to benefit from tactical “go to market” opportunities, not 
long-term debt  
No investor presences – old family businesses  with insufficient succession planning in 
place   
 
3.3 Local organisational capacity  
Successful local area partnerships will be provided with a grant of approx. £1.275 million 
to develop a bespoke business support programme for high -growth potential creative 
businesses in the region, with the aim of building businesses’ management skills a nd 
capabilities and increasing their investment readiness. It is expected that the support 
offer will include a suite of workshops, one -to-one mentoring,  and peer -learning.  
 
A national delivery partner will be appointed to provide the monitoring and admin istration 
of the programme across the successful participating regions and  will also deliver 
investor capacity building activities in addition to a £7m capital fund that participating 
businesses will be able to apply to for finance support. DCMS will commi ssion an 
independent evaluation of the programme. DCMS will also work with the national 
delivery partner and local area partnerships to set up a monthly Programme Board and 
quarterly Steering Board to monitor the programme’s progress against its objectives . It is 
intended that the successful local area partnerships will collaborate closely with DCMS, 
the national delivery partner and programme evaluators to ensure the programme meets 
its intended objectives.    
 
Local area partnerships should demonstrate th at they have the capacity, skills,  and 
resources to deliver the business support programme, as well as sufficient 
understanding of, and partnerships with, creative businesses and networks in their 
region. Please provide a project plan of how you will deliv er the business support 

[PAGE 16]
 
 
 
 
16 
package which addresses the following :  
 
● If a consortium bid, please provide details around contribution and direction of all 
consortium members to the project  
● Describe the type of business support offer you intend to develop, including 
details on the type of delivery (eg. workshops, mentoring) and the subjects 
covered (eg. Intellectual Property training, pitching skills).  
● How you will either draw on existing organisational skills and resources or engage 
specialist expertise to deliver the programme;  
● How you intend to engage with creative industry expertise in developing the 
business support package;  
● How you will resource activity (eg. additional staff recruitment, training 
requirements or procuring third party providers);  
● How you will undertake the p rocurement activity for the project (if applicable), in 
line with Public Contracts Regulations 2015;  
● Provide a summary of key milestones and deliverables for the business support 
programme you intend to design and deliver under this grant, including an 
indication of the time it will take to set up the programme;  
● Provide a summary of key risks relating to the delivery of the programme and how 
these will be monitored and managed;  
● Provide outline costs of how you intend to spend the grant to deliver the busin ess 
programme, including salaries of staff and contractors;  
● Explain how you intend to monitor and report on the programme (this should 
include expenditure; timetable; outcomes and benefits). Describe the financial 
management systems and processes you inte nd to put in place.  
● Please provide a clear proposal for how much funding will be drawn down each 
month from September 2022 to March 2025 and describe how this will be 
accounted for;  
● Provide evidence of your organisation’s financial stability, appropriate governance 
and an ability to administer and account for the grant. In the event of a consortium 
bid, all bidding organisations must provide evidence of financial stability and the 
presence of appropriate governance arrangements between all consortium 
membe rs; 
THE NATURE OF THE PARTNERSHIP  
 
We have assembled an enthusiastic partnership who are committed to working together  
to deliver Create Growth in Lancashire. They are a combination of organisations who will 
work with the project to provide strategic direction and potential delivery partners.  
 
They are:  
  
• Lancashire Enterprise Partnership (LEP) – Lead Body*  
• Lancashire Coun ty Council (LCC) – Accountable Body  

[PAGE 17]
 
 
 
 
17 
• Creative Lancashire (CL)* - Strategic Lead  
• Lancashire Digital Skills Partnership (LDSP)* - Skills partner  
• Boost – Lancashire's Growth Hub (Boost)* - Engagement partner  
• University of Central Lancashire - Institute for Research into Organisations, Work 
& Employment (UCLan iROWE) – Research Partner  
 
(* note – LCC is also Accountable Body for these organisations)  
 
It should be noted that where appropriate if any of these are  involved in direct delivery, 
public procurement routes will be followed.  
 
Since the initial Expression of Interest , we have engaged further with several sector and 
educational partners  who have helped define the  high growth programme.  These 
include:  
  
• Blackpool & Fylde College - Blackpool School of Art  
• Edge Hill University  - Institute for Creative Enterprise  
• University of Central Lancashire  (UCLan)  – Innovation Clinic  
• University Centre Blackpool College (UCBC)  
• Arts Lancashire  
• Digital L ancashire  
• Skills Support for the Workforce  
British Textile Biennial  
• Festival of Making – Art in Manufacturing  (AIM)  
 
THE BUSINESS SUPPORT OFFER  
• Regional public support for business in the face of economic change has a strong 
track record of innovation , as demonstrated in the programmes cited in 3.1, 
above.  
• Widely available and affordable programmes of generic business support and 
access to finance are complemented by established creative sector -focused 
partnerships and networks , including Creative Lancashire and the sub -sector 
networks it supports to develop sustainable careers, innovation, and growth in 
digital, music , screen  and the related content generating industries   
• Creative Lancashire Digital Lancashire, Arts Lancashire, Lancashire Digital Skills  
Partnership, and five Local Cultural Education Partnerships, facilitate 
collaborations across the county building sector capacity.    
• The focus on the economic and social benefits of collaborative approaches to 
commissioning and p rocurement in Community Wealth Building  (the Preston 
Model ) has highlighted the benefits, opportunities and methods for use of public 
funds in asset -led growth.  
• The ongoing experience of aligning national investment and local sector network 

[PAGE 18]
 
 
 
 
18 
growth in Cyber, through the work of the Lancashire Cyber Alliance, highlight s 
developing methods addressing key development needs and pathways for both 
sector and individual company growth. Lancashire looks to help create 
competitive, diverse companies that can agglomerate at the sector level within 
and across supply chains suppor ted by targeted support for individual 
businesses.  
However, mapping and analysis of cultural and creative business es and data on the 
creative workforce shows that Lancashire’s creative businesses are disproportionately 
disadvantaged by fragmentation and d istance from market opportunities, and that this 
results in a business sector which is undercapitalised and struggles to attract and retain 
talent in the face of competition from surrounding metropolitan areas. Whilst the county 
demonstrates excellent and well-coordinated business support and investor 
development provision, those “mainstream” activities are predicated on addressing the 
challenges of retaining jobs and added value in manufacturing sectors in transition to a 
“post -industrial” economy and are not designed to overcome the structural weaknesses 
of the creative sector in Lancashire.  
Lancashire’s Create Growth programme will aggregate existing assets to create 
environments for growth which reflect the unmet needs of the creative sector. The 
program me will support collaborative action between industry and the county’s FE and 
HE institutions, reflecting the success of the Preston Model by creating new “anchor 
institutions” for the creative economy. This recognises that the county’s creative 
businesses  need to operate in a more cohesive creative ecosystem if they are to 
unleash their creative growth potential. The programme design recognises that lack of 
ambition and access to investment are not the only (or even, in some cases, the main) 
constraints to  growth for Lancashire’s creative businesses, many of whom cite skills 
shortages and gaps as the main barrier to meeting opportunities within their existing 
markets. It therefore takes a triple helix approach to strengthening capacity in a series of 
sector - and market -focused “mini -clusters”, operating at different scales in locations 
across the county:  
• Using resource to bring industry insights, business development expertise and 
experience of distribution to bear in development of supply chain and market 
opportunities both within established “verticals” of the creative economy and in 
other growth sectors of Lancashire’s economy  
• Bolstered by the support of “anchor” FE and HE institutions to help address 
undersupply of talent and at the same time addr ess the lack of formal business 
skills  
• Supporting cross -sector knowledge and skills exchange and collaborative R&D 
across those mini -clusters to accelerate the development and market entry of 
new creative IP, products and services  
 

[PAGE 19]
 
 
 
 
19 
Addressing this in the c ontext of Creative Industries growth, the partners see three area -
based sectoral strength opportunities reflecting the county’s landscapes of towns, coast 
and countryside alongside a broader pan -regional theme. The structure of the business 
support offer is based on geographic business need and the  potential to seed creative 
sector clusters and supply chains in four sector pathways:  
 
• Coastal Creatives : Edge Hill Unive rsity’s Institute for Creative Enterprise and the 
Blackpool School of Art at Blackpool & The F ylde College will combine forces to 
create a Blackpool -based creative business accelerator containing a record label 
and development studio for new screen and entertainment content, building on 
the entertainm ent legacy, opportunities in live performance and live event 
production and high visitor numbers within Britain’s greatest traditional seaside 
resort.  
• Pennine Originals : a virtual product development accelerator, based in 
Blackburn and working across the t owns and rural areas of Pennine Lancashire, 
to stimulate collaboration and new product development between artists, makers 
and manufacturers (including the county’s existing base of 340 textile 
manufacturers and high -end paper finishing businesses) , and to  encourage the 
growth of a cadre of diverse -led creative manufacturing hybrids.  
• Cultural Capitals : recognising the growth aspirations of cultural organisations 
(both venue and community -based) involved in development of art  projects which 
develop social ca pital, and their capacity to become “mini -anchors” for wider 
collaboration and innovation across the county’s creative sectors.  
• The Digital Content SuperHighway:  a virtual supply chain accelerator, 
supported by University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) Inno vation Clinic 
(Creative Innovation Zone)  and Lancaster University  (Infolab21) , connecting the 
high growth digital creative businesses which occupy a string of micro -clusters 
and co -working spaces stretching along the M6 from Chorley through Preston 
and Nor th to Lancaster to support innovative applications of new digital and 
screen content, AI and augmented/virtual reality in both B2B and consumer 
markets.  
 
Although the coastal, urban,  and rural hubs are designed to take advantage of supply 
chain opportunities specific to their respective geographies , businesses from across 
Lancashire’s 14 districts  will be eligible to enter any one of the accelerator programmes.  
 
Growing demand and “m icro-clustering” of creative and digital businesses through these 
programmes will be further accelerated by two other recent Lancashire successes in 
related areas of digital technology:  
• The announcement that the National Cyber Force, a national initiative from 
Government and GCHQ to rapidly grow UK civil and military cyber security 
capacity, will be based alongside the North West Advanced Manufacturing 

[PAGE 20]
 
 
 
 
20 
Research Centre  (Academy for Skills & Knowledge - ASK) at Samlesbury in 
South Ribble, close to J unction 31 of the M6 . 
• Admission to the national Institute of Technology network of a consortium of 
Lancashire FE Colleges, led by Blackpool & The Fylde college and with the 
support of the county’s three universities, which will expand delivery of high 
quality, highe r level technical education and training across a range of STEAM  
occupations and industries . 
 
Business support journey:  
 
SOURCE:  
 
• Identification of businesses via Creative Lancashire, Arts Lancashire, Digital 
Lancashire, Lancashire Growth Hubs,  LDSP, Lancashire BME Network and 
referrals through recruitment and engagement plan.      
• Graduation from creative sector  focused support including The Creative Step , 
Creative Lancashire's  bespoke development programme dedicated to the specific 
needs of the secto r, and Lancashire Forum Creative, UCL an’s dedicated creative 
and digital business  and leadership  development programme  delivered via the 
growth hub.  
• Cross -reference from other business support and access to finance  programmes,  
including Boost growth h ub support  and TwoZero ’s dedicated scale up service . 
      
Create Growth  will also recruit via  pathways which creative entrepreneurs use but which 
do not typically feature in the design of business support programmes: eg, BBC Radio 
Lancashire’s “Introducing” programme, which provides a platform for new music and 
emerging artists; screenwriting cour ses; comedy clubs  
 
APPLICATION  PROCESS  
 
• Businesses will be asked to submit an Expression of Interest (EOI)  via Creative 
Lancashire ’s website .  
• The EOI form will include an initial high -level diagnostic to i dentify  potential for 
high growth businesses (using DCMS’s common gateway criteria )8. 
 
8 DCMS defines these high growth potential businesses as distinguished by one or more of the 
following  
● Turnover growth of 10% year -on-year over approximately 3 years (including either prior to or during 
the pandemic);  
● Employing a minimum of 2 people over the last two years (full -time, part -time or freelance);  
● Created a revenue generating product, launched a new platform or service or reached a market of 
scale;  
● Generated a sales revenue in the last 2 yea rs      

[PAGE 21]
 
 
 
 
21 
• Part of the development of capacity, in the form of the relationship and ecosystem 
management offered by the two dedicated Creative Growth Officers , will ensure 
that non -eligib le companies are redirected to The Creative Step or other 
complementary programmes when they don’t fit the criteria of high growth 
potential businesses.  
• The diagnostic process will also be structured to allow greater discretion in 
selection of IP-based bus inesses - particularly in “hit driven” sectors such as 
music, animation, computer games and screen content – which may show a n 
earlier propensity  for high growth without meeting the specific gateway criteria , 
which would be more easily achieved by  a service or product business than one 
developing original content.  
      
GROW:  
Rerefe rral to one of the sector pathways (see above for Hubs). Although the hubs have 
been designed to reflect specific geographical characteristics, applicants based in  any 
one of the 14 Lancashire districts will be eligible.  
Once accepted into the programme, b usiness es will progress through as six-month 
development process as part of a cohort ; but there will also be an element of shared 
delivery ( e.g. masterclasses and seminars on development of skills for  managing growth 
and investor relations) and cross -cohort networking . 
 
TYPE OF BUSINESS SUPPORT  
 
Programme includes : 
 
• Specialist business support (1 -2-1 business growth advice, access to resources 
e.g. studios)  
• Workshops (Group) – sector specific to supply chain development, market 
awareness, routes for growth, Intellectual Property, business models and access 
to new mark ets) 
• Seminars (open to other sector businesses) – Access to Finance, Market Trends, 
Distribution models, International ma rkets   
• Networking the networks (cross -cohort)  
• Networking (B2B cross Lancashire)  
• Investor Capacity Building  
 
The four cohorts will follow a parallel structure, but each cohort will be characterised by 
a differentiated sub -sector context, sector marketplace and sector supply chain (be that 
B2B or B2C) and will be delivered by industry sub -sector specialists and delivery 
partners.  
 

[PAGE 22]
 
 
 
 
22 
The industry hubs - in particular the Blackpool hub, which will include a record label and 
buy in industry promotion and showcasing opportunities as part of its high growth offer - 
place successful industry structures at the heart of the business accelerat ion process, 
rather than the traditional forms of business support which have to date stubbornly failed 
to bring about a transformation in the performance or perception of the county’s creative 
sector.  
 
NEXT STAGE GROWTH  
Referral via Creative Lancashir e to further support through next stage  progression  
programme s, for access to finance and other mechanisms either to fund further 
development or produc tising of original IP or  to support continuous growth so that CGP 
forms part of the company growth cycle journey rather than a single intervention.   
 
THE 4 HUBS :  
 
Coastal Creatives  (Lead delivery partner s: Blackpool School of Art at Blackpool & 
The Fylde College with Edge Hill University ’s Institute for Creative Enterprise (ICE)  
 
Building on the interdisciplinary FE and HE offer of Blackpool Art School and Edge Hill’s 
previous successes in bringing 20 music acts to market through creation of a record 
label , Coastal Creatives  will offer a creative content accelerator programme to 
established businesses and artists (including bands which may not be registered as 
formal businesses) who need support and industry connections (promotion, business 
skills and access to distribution) to monetise existing and new IP in new music  (including 
sync) , screen, theatre and dance.  There are 555 Film, TV and Music businesses in 
Lancashire, and Blackpool is home to the largest cohort of creative workers – 3,400 
individuals - in the county, making this the natural location for a music and entertainment  
focused hub.  
Located within  the Blackpool  School of Arts  and supported by three senior academics 
with specialisms in music, film and performance, the core elements of the Coastal 
Creatives programme will include:  
• 1-2-1 Intensive business support sessions supporting the development of 
business planning, strategy and market/audience development  
• Critical Friend support - feedback on demos, and script treatments  
• Expert led seminars and masterclasses  on;  
 
o Planning and delivery around key stages of IP development and 
exploitation   
o Managing professional relationships  around IP ( e.g. lawyers, agents, 
managers, promoters)  

[PAGE 23]
 
 
 
 
23 
o Investor development and relationship management  
o Diversifying revenue stream s through licensing  and rights management  
o Budgeting and managing cashflow  
o Increasing and evidencing dynamism – doing things differently and using 
technology  
o Marketing and promotion, including use of social media and maintaining 
and monetising fan relationships  
 
• A full -servic e record lab el, designed and managed on commercial lines  
• Access to rehearsal and recording studios , workshops and facilities at Blackpool 
School of Art  
• Access to other professional facilities and venues in Blackpool   
• Showcasing of original content through releases  of new music, radio play, short 
film festivals and live performances  
• Retention of a high -profile industry figure with strong connections to Blackpool to 
promote the course and evangelise Blackpool’s potential as a hub  for new music 
and creative co ntent  
Press, marketing  and promotional support, delivered through an industry -
academic partnership , to promote  the participants and their IP in B2B and 
consumer markets  
The work of the two Creative Growth Officers (dedicated high growth advisor roles within 
Creative Lancashire, funded through the Create Growth programme) in support of this 
and the other projects will also embed additional capacity for the emerging Screen 
Lancashire proposition for television, film, animation and related content busines ses. 
Informed by the Screen Yorkshire investment model and existing partnerships with Film 
Hub North, Screen Skills, Creative UK, and underpinned by a new dedicated Rosebud 
(Lancashire CC investment vehicle) loan fund to support development of screen -based  
IP, this aims to establish Lancashire as a hub for productions with a compelling 
proposition to attract wider investment, both for incoming productions and indigenous 
producers.  
The activity of the accelerator will also provide skills development and plac ement 
opportunities for students and graduates working in a real industry context; and help 
support demand and increase provision of skills to the production services sector for live 
events and entertainment,  
 
Cultural Capitals (Lead delivery partner: Creative Lancashire)  
 
This high growth cohort will feature participants from  Arts Council England’s National 
Portfolio Organisations (NPOs) and other venue - and community -based cultural 

[PAGE 24]
 
 
 
 
24 
organisations involved in so cial capital development. The cohort will cover the whole 
county, ranging from Deco Publique (producers of National Festival of Making, Vintage 
by the Sea  and the new Morecambe Triannual Festival), on the shores of Morecambe 
Bay in the North West to Horse & Bamboo Theatre at the foot of Rossendale to the 
South East.  
The economic contribution and social impact of the cultural sector to Lancashire is 
significant. The county’s eleven NPOs bring in £6.9 million and strategic funds worth 
another £1.3 million. Creative People and Places Projects in Blackpool and Blackburn 
now bring in over £2 million between them, whilst the sector as a whole plays a big part 
in cultural tourism, which is currently worth £4.25 billion to Lancashire.  
For the 2023 NPO rou nd, 25 cultural organisations  have bid to enter the portfolio, with 
most having the potential for growth as result of this investment  
This cohort will also feature non -NPOs with the capacity for high growth and will be 
characterised by organisations who d ominate the participatory cultural space.  
These organisations can closely align their growth to community wealth building in line 
with the Preston model and use social capital development as a route income 
generation and exploitation of IP for both commer cial and social gain, alongside festivals  
such as the Festival of Making, British Textile Biennial and Lightpool  (Light -up North 
Network)  
It is also highly likely that these organisations will feature more intersectional diversity 
especially with principal  leads from the global majority, those who are LGBTQI+ as well 
as those who identify as disabled, d/Deaf and or neurodiverse.  
 
Equally , these organisations will also work within communities featuring a dominance in 
these characteristics.   
 
Analysis of Comp anies House data via Beauhurst9 shows that Lancashire is home to 
610 active Arts businesses . Analysis of LinkedIn suggests that Lancashire is home to a 
"Creative Experiences" workforce (musicians, performers and production services) of  
2,888, of which  only 220 identify as  contractors/ interns/self -employed – which is  likely to 
be an underestimate .  
Arts Lancashire, the dedicated networking organisation, encompasses a membership of 
1,255 experienced arts professionals across 255 business es as well as thousands of 
freelance artists and producers.  
 
In parallel to this is sustained investment from the county council of £900,000. Within 
this budget, an annually recurring match fund pot of £0.5m will boost culture and sports 
 
9 The Fifth Sector, 22 August 2022  

[PAGE 25]
 
 
 
 
25 
initiatives across  Lancashire. A match -funded scheme will ensure commitment from the 
groups applying for funds and will help share the resources across a wider area.  
 
This investment coupled with the CGP will provide a springboard for a sector that has 
been significantly ad versely affected by the pandemic and the subsequent cultural 
decline in audiences at a national level, coupled with a fragmented sector that was 
hitherto under invested in.  
 
The sector is a national leader in social practice and this focus on high growth i ncreases 
the social return investment and the role these organisations can play in community 
wealth building.  
 
The programme will focus on the supply chains for the different cultural sector 
organisations (some are B2C others B2B) and the differing context s of being a building -
based  organisation or being more service orientated . 
The programme will be set against a backdrop of reducing reliance from the outset on 
Arts Council and diversifying income from other funding sources such as National 
Lottery Heritage Fund and trust and foundations such as Esmée Fairburn and Paul 
Hamlyn Foundation. Specifically, though the programme will have a focus on income 
generation from earned income such as social prescribing delivery models via CCGs to 
address the healt h and well -being agenda, as well as initiatives around social mobility, 
community cohesion and other community -based themes.  
The programme will also address increasing cross over with creative and digital sector 
to address shortfalls in digital skills (onl ine content and engagement etc) and incorporate 
the issues around travel across the country with a hybrid model.  
By creating more resilient growth in the sector the project will also increase the 
opportunities for employment with little retention currently  due to the fragmented nature 
of the sector in Lancashire.  
Growth also increases cultural product and cultural tourism building on a brand 
Lancashire.  
Programme elements will include:  
 
• 1-2-1 Intensive business support sessions supporting the development of  
business planning, strategy and market/audience development  
• Critical Friend support - Reading and feedback on draft bid applications  
• Expert Led masterclass sessions on:  
o Planning and delivery around key areas of focus  
o Improving governance and evidencing a ‘well run’ modern cultural 
organisation  

[PAGE 26]
 
 
 
 
26 
o Creating a sustainable business model incl. developing and evidencing 
partnerships  
o Improving and evidencing carbon reduction  
o Budgeting  
o Increasing and evidencing dynamism – doing things differently and using 
technology  
o Increasing and evidencing inclusivity & relevance  
o Improving evaluation  
o Evidencing public benefit and added value  
o Fundraising and finance  
 
Pennine Originals  (Lead  delivery partner: Creative Lancashire)  
 
Pennine Originals will be a virtual product development accelerator, collocated alongside 
the British  Textile Biennial and the PRISM Contemporary Art Gallery and studios in the 
centre of Blackburn but operating across the towns and rural communities of East 
Lancashire.  
 
Its focus is on making  and added value through design  and textiles. Uniquely it will also 
address the under -exploited and differentiated  market opportunities for makers and their 
commens urate product, culture and markets  in South  Asian communities. Inward 
migration is offering up diverse led creative product opportunities especially Lancashire  
having more online sellers via eBay than anywhere  else in the country. This also offers 
up cross -sector potential for e-commerce , cyber security and  secure payments as well 
as other digital  platform services.  
 
There is a unique  opportunity to build on the role of creativity, art and  its link to 
innovation in manufacturing businesses  via projects  such as Art in Manufacturing  (AIM) , 
a collaboration between the Festival of Making and Super Slow Way. AIM commission s 
multidisciplinary artists to work with some of the leading manufacturers  (Hos ts) across 
Pennine Lancashire , creating the potential for spin -out innovations with artists for new 
products to take to new markets . CGP can facilitate the high growth potential of cross -
sector collaborations and interventions such as these for commercial growth. The 
creative disruption and exploration of  materials and process in manufacturing could 
create a competitive advantage in pro duct development and subsequent growth.   
 
LinkedIn provides evidence of a 4,800 Lancashire residents in "Creative Originals" 
disciplines – product design, crafts  and “making”.  
 
The Digital  Content Superhighway (Lead delivery partner s: Lancaster University 
and UCLan – Innovation Clinic ) 
 

[PAGE 27]
 
 
 
 
27 
More than half of Lancashire’s creative businesses are engaged in production of d igital 
content , with activity span ning the sub -sectors of advertising (750 businesses) Film, TV 
and Music (555 businesses) and IT, software and computer  services (2,000+ 
businesses ) 10  and accounting for 20,000 of the total creative workforce of 36,000 
people.11 Despite its scale – the sub -sector is larger than its equivalents in city regions 
such as Liverpool and  South Yorkshire12 - this part of the creative ecology  remains 
hugely fragmented , with the majority of businesses employing fewer  than 10 people.   
 
This sub -sector, perhaps more than any other creative sector, is experiencing massive 
technological change. AI and automation, VR and AR, gamification, video streaming, 
data analytics, machi ne learning, personalisation, e -commerce, voice search are just 
some of the changes rapidly impacting the sector.   
 
Businesses rely heavily on both creative and tech skills so professional partnerships and 
connections are critical. Not every business will have a full complement of expertise - AI 
specialists, UX designers, data analysts, graphic designers, videographers, sound 
engineers, production managers.   
 
Aligned with increased commercial demands, these businesses face increased pressure 
on budgets and project time frames.  “Mainstream” methods of business support are not 
always effective for honing a business which demands creative, technical and business 
acumen.  Businesses themselves are exploring new business models to accelerate 
development of scale a nd innovation:  AMS Neve , Forepoint , Realtime UK & Wash 
Studio/Wash Film personify the current crop of design agencies that demonstrate high 
growth potential and are seizing opportunities to develop specialist propositions around 
an increase in demand for content related projects . 
Recognising the importance of this hugely variable supply chain, this element of the 
programme will seek to ensure that connections and networks are formed to extend 
beyond the programme leading to new collaborations and new b usiness opportunities.   
 
This delivery element for the digital content sub -sector will be under -pinned by three key 
distinctive pillars:  
 
• In a changing technological environment, the need to have expertise and support 
which deals with  the rapid “speed of c hange”  
 
10 The Fifth Sector analysis of Companies House data via Beauhurst, August 2022  
 
11 
Curator Technologies/The Fifth Sector analysis of LinkedIn, August 2022.  
12 The Fifth Sector, op cit.  

[PAGE 28]
 
 
 
 
28 
• Understanding that the sector relies heavily on cross -sector collaboration ( e.g.: 
games companies creating content for advertising companies) to foster a clear 
understanding of the value of connected networks.  
• To raise the awareness and understandin g about the extent of the supply chain 
across the region.  
The programme will cover the following topics:    
• Collaborative and partnership working across the supply chain including 
innovation and creativity, experimentation, R&D, design thinking, understandi ng 
risk and learning from mistakes.  
• Entrepreneurship, setting up partnership ventures, adaptability focused on 
revenue and funding.  
• Business models - mixed income streams, hybrid funding public and private, 
assets and resources and IP, different ways of creating value.  
• Digital leadership – understanding the implications of being a digitally creative 
business as opposed to being good at tech.  
• Organisational structures and design – to enable effective management, 
accountability, and performance.  
• Strategic p lanning in uncertain times – vision setting, futures thinking, agility and 
adaptability, planning for short -, medium - and long -term.  
Lancaster University  is well placed to support mini -clusters developing around creative 
and digital industries in Lancashi re bringing key science and industry insights, business 
development expertise and support in the development of supply chain and market 
opportunities It can help address undersupply of talent and at the same time address the 
lack of formal business skills and support cross -sector knowledge and skills exchange 
and collaborative R&D across those mini -clusters to accelerate the development and 
market entry of new creative IP, products and services.  
Lancaster University is a top ten research intensive universi ty with considerable 
experience of delivering SME engagement projects in Lancashire and regionally across 
a variety of sectors. A rich ecosystem of business support has been built -up over a 
period of years reaching out to start -ups and businesses across se ctors including the 
creative and digital sectors.  
Two faculties operate in this space with considerable experience of the methodologies 
that best enable knowledge transfer and practical business support These are Lancaster 
Institute for the Contemporary A rts (LICA) and the School and Computing and 
Communications, part of the Faculty of Science and Technology and the prestigious 
Infolab 21 facility work with businesses of all sizes with a range of engagement methods 

[PAGE 29]
 
 
 
 
29 
including contract and collaborative resea rch, supporting student projects, placements 
and internships, training, guest lectures and events for businesses  
The delivery model for this programme will also build  on the highly successful Digital 
Tech Hubs programme which has attracted more than 200 me mbers since it launched in 
April 2022 with the aim of developing a county -wide series of inter -connecting digital 
content hubs.  
Expert talks, mentoring, and workshops will be delivered through the county’s existing 
six digital hubs – in Blackburn, Chorley,  Blackpool, Lancaster, Burnley and Preston.  
UCLan Innovation Clinic have a broad range of relevant capabilities. Specifically, around 
the ability to design, innovate and generate user interaction aspects across the array of 
mediums and critically assess th eir efficacy with the user.  - from user interfaces to 
augmented immersive environments.  
The associated  bespoke Creative Innovation Zone service utilises creative thinking and 
ideation with students for  all sectors.  
 RESOURCING ACTIVITY  
 
The programme will be resourced by 2  new Creative ‘Animators’ – each supporting two 
of the  core project 's themes , plus a suite of deliver y support ed by specialist third party 
providers. These Animators will be recruited and trained by LCC and deployed to 
Creative Lancashire to support the programme.  
A further two posts attached  to Creative Lancashire would directly deliver elements of 
the business support programme  
All external provision  of business support  would be procured by compliant (Public Sector 
Contracts Regulations 2015) procedures.  
PROCUREMENT  
Lancashire County Council, as Accountable Body for the project, would oversee all 
external procurement. LCC has an in -house Procurement Team, supported by legal and 
finance specialists.   The team is highly experienced in handling business support 
contracts delivered by external providers. The Team will ensure that all procurement 
follows the Public Contracts Regulations 2015, including those subject to open tender 
procedures and those that fall within the lo cal authority’s own delegated limits.  
 

[PAGE 30]
 
 
 
 
30 
External procurement will also be supported by an in -house team of programme 
managers who are experienced in overseeing externally funded projects, with many 
year's experience  in managing UK and EU funded business sup port programmes.  
 
KEY MILESTONES AND DELIVERABLES  
 
We believe that we can hit the ground running. LCC has a number of officers currently 
involved in running down EU funded programmes who could be redeployed into 
programme management roles  to support Creat e Growth.   The procurement process 
has already been built into the forward work programme of the Procurement Team.  We 
envisage the following key milestones:  
 
October 2022 – Programme soft launch to business intermediaries  
                          Project  Manager nominated  
                          Procurement commences  
 
January 2023 -  Delivery organisations appointed  
                          Delivery commences  
                          Formal launch to the creative sector  
 
April 2023 -        All support programmes in place  
                          1st Peer Group recruited  
                          10 businesses participating  
                           
April 20 24 -        50 businesses participating  
                          4th and 5th Peer Groups recruited  
 
March 2025 -     100 businesses participating  

[PAGE 31]
 
 
 
 
31 
                           
KEY RISKS   
Engagement and demand risk  
We are confident that both the demand exists for this programme in Lancashire and that 
we are able to engage with sufficient individuals and businesses to be able to make a 
significant impact and to deliver  the programme target s. We have carried ou t significant 
research to be sure of the issues facing the creative sector locally and have quantified 
that the target group exists in sufficient numbers.  
By working with and through existing networks and specialist organisations withi n the 
consortium  partnership  we can have a wide reach across the creative and related 
sectors (legal, finance, digital etc) and this will mitigate this risk.  
Delivery risks  
The risk of delivery falling below projected targets will be mitigate by putting in  place and 
experienced team of project/programme managers. Also,  by engaging with a wide range 
of delivery organisations we can offset the risk of individual organisations under -
performing or failing by building on the more successful delivery partners.  
Close and rigid monthly monitoring will flag up any areas of significant concern and we 
will requir e organisations to identify remedial action if issues are flagged up.  
Procurement risks  
All procurement funded by the DCMS grant will be overseen by the Procurement Team 
in Lancashire County Council, the Accountable Body for the programme.  This will 
mitigate the risk of non -compliant procurement being undertaken.  
Financial risks  
All payments to external delivery organisations will be made in arrears, and f unding 
released only upon evidence of satisfactory delivery and evidence of expenditure. The 
LCC programme team will establish close monitoring relationships with delivery 
organisations,  and this should alert us to  any concerns at an early stage regarding 
expenditure not being defrayed in line with the agreed profile, or on non -eligible items.  
External providers will also be required to provide evidence of financial stability and track 
record upon appointment.  
 
 

[PAGE 32]
 
 
 
 
32 
 
OUTLINE COSTS  
Direct staffing costs (business support delivery) - £523,320  
Marketing, events, promotion, digital content -      £419,200  
Procured specialist support -                                 £332,480  
Total                                                                   £1,275,000  
 
 
MONITORING AND REPORTING  
The DCMS expenditure will be monitored by an experienced Programme Management Team 
within Lancashire County Council, the Accountable Body, under the line management of the 
Head of Business Growth. Delivery contracts covering supp ort to businesses and based on the 
approved DCMS funding, will be procured using the agreed public procurement routes. 
Purchase Orders will be issued by the Team to the appointed delivery organisations, who will 
then submit periodic invoices (monthly or qu arterly) against agreed delivery schedules and 
outcomes.  
The invoices will be checked by the LCC Team against the specification on the 
Purchase Orders and any agreed delivery outcomes. An officer independent of delivery 
will check and authorise the invoic es for payment. There is a separation of duties so that 
any officer who commissions contracts is not the one who signs off the payment. All 
transactions are recorded on Oracle  iSupplier Payment Portal , the financial 
management system used by the Accountable Body. The expenditure will be checked 
and reconciled each period by another officer within the Team who will compile the 
monthly/quarterly Claims to DCMS. This officer will be responsible for checking 
compliance with the Grant Funding Agreement . 
In terms of monitoring, each external provider will be required to submit a monthly 
project monitoring report (PMR) to back up monthly expenditure claims, alongside their 
invoice. The Programme Team within LCC will examine the PMR against the agreed 
delivery profile and will challenge any significant variation from profile.  Payments will 
only be released to providers upon evidence of suitable progress against agreed targets.  
 
FUNDING DRAWDOWN  
 
 
Lancashire County Council will maintain robust expenditure and grant receipt regimes 
using Oracle, the Council's Financial Control system.  All transactions are tracked and 
logged against purchase orders and approved expenditure codes. All claims to DCMS 
will be made on the basis of actual  evidenced expenditure – using payroll evidence and 
receipted invoices matched against approved allocations and purchase orders. 
Payments to procured providers will also be examined alongside delivery contracts, and 

[PAGE 33]
 
 
 
 
33 
paymen ts will only be released upon evidence of satisfactory performance.  
 
The anticipated cash flow will be:  
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL STABILITY  
 
Lancashire County Council will take on all Accountable Body roles and as such will be 
responsible for the DCMS grant funding.   The Council has systems in place to safeguard 
public sector funding both in terms on income and expenditure, with a net budget of 
£948m in 2022 -23. The council has a robust internal audit service in place and the 
annual accounts are also subject to indep endent external audit.  
The experienced officer teams within the Council will oversee the DCMS grant both in 
terms of expenditure and delivery and will be supported by specialist legal, finance and 
procurement teams to ensure proper safeguards and due dilig ence are in place to 
safeguard the grant funding.  
In order to deal with the consortium arrangements, a Memorandum of Understanding will 
be put in place between the LEP as lead body and each consortium members defining 
their roles in the project.  Please note that no DCMS grant will automatically be made 
available to the partners.  Any direct delivery by the partners will be subject to 
supervision by the LCC Procurement Team, will follow public procurement guidelines 
and will require partners to pro vide evidence of financial stability before any funding is 
approved. All are either public bodies, controlled by public bodies or not -for profit.  
3.4 Programme Legacy:  
Local area partnerships should demonstrate how the programme will support them in 


[PAGE 34]
 
 
 
 
34 
deve loping partnerships and building long -term capacity and legacy infrastructure to 
support the creative industries in their area after the programme ends. Please provide 
details against each of the following:  
● How does the programme’s stated objectives align with existing or future local 
cultural, creative industries and economic growth strategies or plans?  
● How will you support local economic growth and productivity in the creative sector 
beyond the CGP? DCMS w elcomes local area partnerships to identify 
opportunities for additional funding to support the continuation of the programme 
beyond its lifecycle or to support complementary feeder and follow -on 
programmes.  
● Describe how you will use the programme to stre ngthen local understanding and 
partnerships with CI businesses within the region and how you will build capacity 
in the local area partnership team for supporting the CIs;  
● Describe what support you intend to provide to businesses that have successfully 
been through the CGP beyond the programme, to help ensure that they continue 
to realise their growth potential;  
● Describe how you will strengthen investor networks willing to invest in the CIs 
within the region.  
 
Alignment with local policy  
The programmes objectives align with the LEP  Cultural Investment Strategy which  
recognises the opportunities and benefits that could be generated from a better 
connected cultural and creative sector that sees the main urban areas, smaller towns, 
and rural area s, working collaboratively to build scale, presence, and impact (REMADE 
– May 2020).  
 
The LEP’s  Cultural Investment Strategy will facilitate the remaking and recognition of 
culture to deliver the LEP’s vision for Lancashire against the following agreed out comes:  
 
1. Increased Connectivity:  A better connected cultural and creative sector that sees the 
main urban areas, smaller towns and rural areas, working collaboratively to build scale, 
presence and impact. By working together, the diversity of places in Lancashire can 
more effectively develop a clear offer and role, which resonates locally, nationally and 
internationally for audiences and markets.  
 
2. Enhanced Capacity:  A stronger, more diverse, sustainable and appropriately skilled 
cultural sector – delivered by scaling up organisations, nurturing talent and ideas, skilling 
up creative practitioners and developing and deepening audience knowledge 
engagement to support the next generation of leaders, innovators and culture seekers. 
Cultural organisations and infrastructure will be positioned to deliver positive outcomes 
for economic growth, high -quality real and virtual places, increased collaborations 
across businesses of all sizes and structures and audience development and reach.  
 

[PAGE 35]
 
 
 
 
35 
3. Improved Crossover s: An international reputation for the strength, depth and ingenuity 
of our partnerships and collaborations. These will promote convergence and innovation 
across our strengths in culture, creativity, research, science, technology and 
manufacturing.  
 
4. Bolder Commissioning and Innovative Infrastructure:  National and international 
recognition for the strength of our connected cultural and creative infrastructure, and for 
delivering high quality work to diverse audiences in historic and state -of-the art buildings 
and more widely through Lancashire’s communi ties, businesses, higher education, 
colleges and schools, resulting in a more widely engaged, diverse and developed 
audience base.  
 
5. Compelling Cultural Narratives:  National and international recognition for the 
distinctiveness of our places, people and  environment; with Lancashire’s cultural offer 
and cultural life making the area a highly attractive place for residents, visitors, workers 
and investors.  
 
The CGP complements the strategy which also sets out how a stronger, more diverse, 
sustainable, and appropriately skilled sector will be delivered by scaling up 
organisations, nurturing talent and ideas, skilling up creative practitioners to support the 
next generation of leaders.  
 
The CGP will also align with strategic  opportunities including the emergi ng Screen 
Lancashire proposition that will embed increased connectivity and enhanced capacity in 
tv, film and related content businesses, informed by the Screen Yorkshire investment 
model. In addition to spin -out benefits for destination marketing, the aim  is to establish 
Lancashire as a hub for productions with a compelling proposition to attract wider 
investment and increase capacity via partnerships with Film Hub North, Screen Skills, 
Creative England, and a dedicated Rosebud loan fund to support capacit y building in the 
creative sector. Lancashire is one of few local authorities with an established business 
loans scheme, providing loans from £10k upwards, focus  on developing long term 
relationships to further empower growth . 
There is also scope for Lanca shire to develop its own model based on the strength of its 
creative community, its heritage and environmental offer that will be created through the 
emerging Linear Park, a pioneering and deliverable programme that seeks to marry an 
approach to physical r egeneration to expansive programmes of environmental, cultural, 
leisure, educational and economic activity across some of Lancashire's most deprived 
places. To date the project has already attracted £1.1m from the Department of 
Levelling Up, Housing and Co mmunities and the National Lottery Community Fund's 
Reaching Communities, Climate Action Fund programmes and ACE.  

[PAGE 36]
 
 
 
 
36 
Recent research by iRowe UCLan largely validates this approach. In Lancashire  the 
augmented set of anchor institutions was found to underpin 9 % of turnover, during 
2019/ 20. The multiplier effect arising from the actions of creative firms themselves was 
estimated to be 1.47, implying that an initial investment of £1 million injected into the 
Lancashire creative sector, through anchor institution procurement expenditure, was 
likely to produce an overall economic boost to the county economy of £1.47 million. A 
fraction of this would, in turn, benefit the creative sector through indirect and induced 
effects  (UCLan & Nesta PEC 2022) . 
Lanca shire‘s offer to investors and future workforce is long -term and strategic. We will 
unlock potential within The Creative Step Alumni Community to look beyond traditional 
peer-to-peer networks to establish a 'Community of Practice' to act as an academy and 
space for practice -based knowledge exchange and life -long learning.  
Guided by the Digital  Landscape report (LEP 2019), and the LDSP 8 pillars of activity, 
the CGP will empower creative organisations to deliver digital strategies across 
authorities and Digi tal Inclusion, that align with the Strategic Framework of the LEP 
Skills and Employment Hub and develop an effective digital eco system.  As a result, 
cultural and creative organisations and infrastructure will be positioned to deliver positive 
outcomes for  economic growth.  
We have the wider eco -system components in place and will be further enhanced by the 
experiences gained through CGP to provide a robust and innovative offering that is 
inclusive of our creatives industry enabling a platform for sustained growth and success 
beyond the lifetime of CGP.  This includes the Hub themselves continuing to thrive 
through catalysing new business communities  and networks and investing in developing 
their own capacity beyond the CGP.  
The drive to develop new local, regional and national investor networks to support 
innovation and diversification in Lancashire’s post -industrial sectors is also a key 
objective of  LEP Digital Strategy (2022) . Creative Lancashire has already developed 
strategic partnerships with national sector and industry bodies including Creative UK, 
BFI and the Design Council as part of its efforts to advance the development of wider 
investor relations . The Create Growth p rogramme will further catalyse and accelerate 
the achievement of tangible outcomes of this strategy in the form of new business 
investments.  
 
Lancashire County Council is also reviewing its investment strategy to reflect demand 
from knowledge -intensive se ctors of the regional economy which is not being serviced 
either by public or private finance products. This includes a route map to greater agility 
and flexibility in the types of products and terms offered . LCC’s Finance  lead is working 
closely with Crea tive Lancashire to better tailor the new strategy to meet the needs of 
the county’s high growth creative businesses.  

[PAGE 37]
 
 
 
 
37 
3.5. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)  
Local area partnerships should demonstrate their commitment to opening up access and 
broadening the diversity of workforce in creative businesses in their area. Please provide 
details against the following:  
● Describe the specific EDI challenges facing creative businesses in the region;  
● Describe how you intend to engage diverse businesses, e mploying those with 
protected characteristics, as part of the CGP;  
● Describe how the business support offer provided will support businesses in 
diversifying their workforce and open up opportunities for those with protected 
characteristics;  
● Explain how you will monitor the diversity of workforce in the businesses 
supported.  
 
In the context of 'levelling up' and the Covid -19 pandemic the creative sector has been 
hit particularly hard, the focus turns to how creative economies can recover and foster 
growth in regions, towns, and cities. Location is an imp ortant determinant for successful 
and sustainable forms of local economic development. In Lancashire the impact has 
been significant and that has also been compounded for those who are already 
excluded and underrepresented in the sector.  
COVID -19 has exacerbated a long -standing crisis of inequality in the creative industries. 
The All -Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Diversity, reported on the need to support 
the sector in its efforts to address this will be crucial as businesses and or ganisations 
rebuild and recover and that the pandemic has already had a negative impact on the 
talent pipeline into the creative industries.  
At a regional and sub -regional level where diversity is already an issue the pandemic 
has further created an inequ ity in the creative and cultural sector as well as a gap in 
skills, leadership and capacity. In Lancashire precarity in the creative sector has meant 
less engagement with those from marginalised socio -economic  background, those from 
ethnically diverse back grounds and those who identify as disabled, deaf and or 
neurodiverse.  
 
Lancashire is  not characterised by the levels of inward migration as found in 
metropolitan urban areas . However , it still has a population disparately spread across 
the main towns  and is differentiated by the presence of a significant South Asian 
diaspora population in a largely rural area of Pennine Lancashire.  
 
 
 

[PAGE 38]
 
 
 
 
38 
2011 Census  
The usual resident population of the Lancashire -14 area was 1,460,893 in the 2011 
Census. The largest ethnic gro up was white (90%). The ethnically diverse group formed 
10% of the population. (141,000 people) . 
 
20% of Pendle (18,000) and Preston (28,000) was ethnically diverse, Burnley and 
Hyndburn was 12% (11,0000 and 10,000) Rossendale was 6% (4200), and Lancaster 
was just over 4% (6000) . 
Darwen was almost 70% white. Asian/Asian British was the largest minority ethnic group 
in Lancashire -14 with almost 115,000 Asian/Asian British people, and just over 71,000 in 
Lancashire -12. The second largest minority ethnic group  was mixed race. There were 
16,300 mixed race people across Lancashire -14 and almost 13,000 mixed race people 
lived in Lancashire -12. The black/black British population numbered 5,377 in 
Lancashire -14, and just over 4,000 in Lancashire -12. This diversity h owever isn’t 
reflected in the creative and cultural sector . 
 
Through partnership with local professional networks, our two Creative People & Places 
programmes, LeftCoast & Super Slow Way, and collaborations with National Festival of 
Making and British Textile Biennial, we have presented an accessible, national 
progr amme of engaging, high -quality projects and activities targeted to communities and 
audiences who don’t usually engage with publicly funded creative initiatives made up of 
organisations led by young people, global majority communities, LGBTQIA+ 
communities,  disabled communities and with Individuals from areas of high deprivation.  
 
Creative Lancashire also recently collaborated with Arts Lancashire and LCC to offer 
support to Arts Council (ACE) National Portfolio applicants covering the investment 
principles o utlined in the Let's Create Strategy relating to Inclusivity & Relevance, and 
the related Creative Case for Diversity.  
We will use these networks as a route into more diverse engagement as well as 
identifying high growth potential organisations with the a bility to take part in the 
programme.  
 
In Lancashire, ethnically diverse businesses do not necessarily identify as creative -led 
enterprises , occupying a more familiar and traditional manufacturing, cyber or tech 
environment. This leads to limited supply ch ains; one of the objectives of Lancashire’s 
CGP is to promote ways in which creativity can add value to existing product and 
services offers from these businesses and expand their marketplace  as well as 
facilitating wider collaboration and a greater divers ity within creative supply chain s. It 
also places a higher value o n creative functions within companies – a factor identified as 
long ago as 2008 as contributing to growth and innovation in” non -creative” businesses 

[PAGE 39]
 
 
 
 
39 
(Nesta, 2008) as well as attracting the graduate talent that Lancashire has struggled to 
retain.  
The business support programme will be delivered across the four hubs through a lens 
of inclusion and diversity as framework for growth. In their Diversity Wins report, 
McKinsey & Co evidence that diverse and inclusive companies are likely to make better, 
bolder decisions and that diverse teams have been shown to be more likely to radically 
innovate and anticipate shifts in consumer needs and consumption patterns — helping 
their companies to gain a c ompetitive edge. They consistently prove  that high growth 
companies base their success on diverse and inclusive environments.  
This premise will underpin growth for all companies on the programme, not just those 
led by diverse principals. With a global ma rketplace available, diversity of consumers 
and audience will be predicated on diversity and representation of companies.  
 
This project builds on previous support offered to businesses in collaboration with Tech 
Talent Charter, working with SMEs to embed practical steps to better engage with 
diverse people, and to retain them to build innovative teams within organisations, and for 
the same organisations to progress their own diversity strategies.  
 
This isn’t just an exercise in diversity but will catalyst  and organisational and cultural shift 
as Lancashire creative businesses move beyond the founding behaviours of an 
industrial model and move into post -industrial business cultures that are open to 
innovation , diversity,  and collaboration.  
 
All delivery teams will have experience in inclusive practices and delivering within the 
context of inclusion.  
We will also look at collating inclusive and transparent recruitment best practices from 
LCC and also the delivery  partne rs to provide  a consistent and coherent accessible and 
inclusive route into the programme  using easy reads, video and written applications and 
guidance.  
We will also capture data on all protected characteristics including ethnicity, gender 
identity, sexu ality, disability  and socio -economic background  using anonymised 
monitoring forms that will also include sector groupings to collect more industrial data  to 
inform strategy on sector development . 
 
 
 
 

[PAGE 40]
 
 
 
 
40 
Privacy Notice  
All information will be processed in compliance with the Data Protection Act 2018, 
the General Data Protection Regulation and any other relevant data protection 
legislation.  
Who controls the information the applicant provides?  
The Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) controls any 
personal data the applicant provides in their answers.  
Why are we collecting and processing applicant’s personal data?  
The applicant’s personal data is being collected and processed by DCMS to 
assess their application and suitability for the Create Growth Programme. Our 
legal basis for the processing is that it is necessary for performance of a task in 
the public interest.  
Will we share the applicant’s personal data?  
The applicant’s personal data may be shared with other government d epartments 
and non -departmental public bodies as part of the grant management process, 
including but not limited to the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial 
Strategy (BEIS) and UK Research and Innovation (UKRI).  
We may also share their personal data with third parties if we are required to do 
so by law — for example, by court order, or to prevent fraud or other crime.  
We will not transfer the applicant’s personal data outside of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) or to international organisations.  
If we are required to share details of the application further or use an applicant’s 
responses to illustrate findings, we will ensure that neither individuals nor the 
organisation represented are identifiable.  
DCMS may share information (excluding personal  data) relating to an application 
with third parties outside government where required to do so by law, for example 
in accordance with access to information regimes, such as are primarily the 
Freedom of Information Act 2000.  
How long will we keep an applic ant’s personal data for?  

[PAGE 41]
 
 
 
 
41 
If an application is unsuccessful, it will be retained until March 2024, after which it 
will be destroyed. If an application is successful, it will be retained until March 
2029, for analysis and reporting after which it will be des troyed.  
An applicant’s rights over their personal data  
Applicants have the right to see what personal data we have about them, to have 
it corrected, to request that we restrict what we do with their data in certain 
circumstances, and to ask us to stop usi ng their data, but keep it on record.  
An applicant’s right to complain  
Applicants also have the right to lodge a complaint to the Information 
Commissioner's Office about our practices, to do so please visit the Information 
Commissioner’s Office website: https://ico.org.uk/concerns . 
Please confirm below that the applicant has read and understood this statement 
and agrees with its terms.  
If applicants need any further information please contact: Data Protection  Officer 
via dcmsdataprotection@culture.gov.uk . 
 
I declare that I have the authority to represent Lancashire LEP  in making this 
application.  
 
I understand that acceptance of this application does not in any way signify that it is 
eligible for Create Growth Programme  funding or that funding has been approved 
towards it.  
 
On behalf of Creative Lancashire, a service provided by Lancashire County Council , 
I confirm that:  
● Lancashire LEP  has the legal authority to carry out the project; and  
● The information provided in this application is accurate.  
 
 
Signature:       Date: 25/08/2022  
 
 
Name:   Edward Matthews -Gentle  
 
 
Role:   Senior Project Officer Creative Lancashire, LCC  

[PAGE 42]
 
 
 
 
42 
 
 
Completed applications should be returned to the Creative Economy team at 
DCMS via the following email:  creategrowth@dcms.gov.uk  
 
Please note:  
● The deadline for full applica tions is 23:59hrs BST, Thursday 25 August 2022 ; 
● All applications received by the closing date will be assessed following the closing 
date;  
● Any applications received after the closing date will not be assessed;  
● All information and guidance relating to this round of funding can be found on the 
‘Applying to the Create Growth Programme’ on  gov.uk ; 
● As the application process is competitive, DCMS is  not able to  respond to 
requests for support in completing the applicatio n. 