Reimagining Growth Session Agenda: "Proving Impact: Measuring Success in the Creative Economy"
1.	Moderation Notes
I plan to open by establishing that while "metrics" sound dry, they're actually about bringing visibility to creative work that transforms communities
My preference in this session is to show a ‘light touch’ in moderation: I want to encourage natural connections between you all as speakers, whilst providing just enough structure to bring out key themes from the discussion.
That means that when you reference each other's points, I’m more likely to step back and let the conversation flow than impose a strict ‘Q and A’ structure.
The preparatory discussions to this session have brought home to me that the contrast between regions at different stages of development is a strength rather than weakness of the panel – and also that there is a self-evident intersectionality between the different approaches. I’m sure that will be apparent to the audience, but if you see an obvious opportunity to highlight that in the discussion, please take it!
2.	Session Overview
10:20-10:24 | SCENE-SETTING (Iain)
• Welcome and framing: "Data and evidence can be dynamic and exciting"
• Brief introduction of panellists and their unique ecosystem contexts
• Positioning the conversation: From grassroots connection to data collection to policy influence
10:24-10:38 | CATALYST STORIES (3-4min each)
• Gillian: Dundee's community-driven approach - qualitative insights driving tangible change
• Dana: Kazakhstan's journey - bringing businesses 'out of the shadows' to be counted in official statistics, reflected in growth from 18,000 to 43,000 registered creative businesses
• Duygu: Turkey's government frameworks - measuring gaming/content sector's $3.3B exports
All: discuss your reactions to other panellists’ experiences (2-3 mins)
10:38- 10:52 | FACILITATED CONVERSATION
Key thread: "Collecting evidence that matters and making it work for your ecosystem"
Topics
How can self-organization and collective action act as catalysts for measurement?
How do you balance official statistics with community-generated data?
How do metrics translate into policy influence and economic arguments?
How can you use your experience to help other places address regional differences and development stages?
10:52-10:58. | AUDIENCE ENGAGEMENT
Prompts:
Practical questions about application in diverse contexts
Identifying other successful approaches from audience experience
10:58-11:00 | SYNTHESIS & NEXT STEPS
I’m going to ask each of you for one practical takeaway from our conversation – whether that’s about a new approach, a resource for further development or continued exploration of the potential for partnership between industry and government.
Close with a call to action on evidence-based development
3.	Key questions held in reserve
Rather than planning to ask all of these, I’m keeping them ‘up my sleeve’ as prompts to use only if the natural discussion stalls or needs redirection:
For collective discussion: "How do you balance quantitative metrics that governments want with qualitative impact that often matters more to communities?"
Following Gillian's community approach: "How do informal measurements create credibility with formal institutions?"
For all panellists: "What single measurement approach has been most effective in demonstrating genuine impact to stakeholders?"
For policy discussion: "How do you balance immediate economic metrics with long-term cultural development indicators?"
For policy discussion (2): Dana made a point to me in our conversation before this panel about the need for creative industries alliances to show "persistence in being official" – how have you been able to connect grassroots approaches with policy influence?