Frontier Economics and BOP have developed a bespoke approach to this evaluation that combines a best-practice mixed methods evaluation with the requirements of the creative sector. We recognise that many of the institutions that form part of the creative clusters will not be part of standard data sets and that the added value of the clusters themselves is based on how they develop networks that encourage innovation. Our approach is based on these and related characteristics of the sector and this Challenge Fund. Due to the page limit for this section, the descriptions of the tasks have been abbreviated.
Summary of Main Challenges
The intervention model in the CICP programme contains a great deal of diversity alongside some commonality in terms of mechanisms (e.g. secondments, training, placements, collaborative R&D grants, infrastructure). We understand these are used in differing combinations and may also mean very different things in each of the nine CRDPs. There also seems a strong emphasis on individual participants, as well as companies. Many of the interventions are also likely to be further away from the market than in the closely-related Audience of the Future Challenge, likely to increase the prevalence of ‘lag effects’ in terms of the returns to the CICP programme. All of these factors could complicate the process of tracking and attributing change. We suggest that a mixed-methods contribution analysis will therefore be required, alongside (and to inform) a CBA.
Diversity has been ‘designed in’ to the programme to enable each CRDP to respond most appropriately to the conditions of the cluster in which they are embedded. But the existing programme logic model does not seem as yet to contain a theory of place: how the CICP is going to contribute to regional economic development in each of the nine places, beyond the individual CICP participants. We will draw on a longstanding research literature in the geography of innovation, and stakeholder interviews, to provide this logic.
Measuring creative R&D is challenging (see PROJ1.3), although our work current work with AotF and previous projects means that we have a headstart in this regard.
Impacts will be affected by external factors, including parallel programmes of public support, and this context will need to be taken into account when analysing the results.
The inclusion of the PEC alongside the CRDPs requires a distinct approach to evaluating its unique role.
The CICP programme will engage with a large number of individuals and companies, split across nine geographies. This has significant resource implications for the evaluation, particularly for analysing the wider economic impacts of the Programme. We suggest that a sampling approach is taken to this element of the work, looking in detail at the relevant creative ecosystem in 3 or 4 CRDP places and matched counterfactual geographies. 
Overview of approach
In line with the ITT, our approach comprises four phases. Phase 1 is the initial project set up period which includes an interrogation and revision of the current Logic Model and elaboration of a Theory of Change, and the development of the full evaluation framework. Phase 2 is baseline measurement and initial delivery evaluation. Phase 3 is a light-touch interim update, focused on capturing learning and insight on process and interim impact, and Phase 4 is the full impact evaluation and final delivery review. 
Our approach to the delivery (process) evaluation aims to maximise efficient use of evaluation resources and provide insight at key points to inform delivery. We will collect data on delivery effectiveness predominantly in Phases 2 and 4, in what is a change from what is requested in the ITT. In Phase 2 we will include relevant questions in our quantitative and qualitative data collection (where appropriate). By that point, 18 months will have elapsed since the CICP awards and we feel useful insight on delivery will be possible. In Phase 3, we propose undertaking a project team review meeting, and a workshop with the nine CRDP leads to highlight changes in delivery and to capture lessons learned. We will draw this together in a short Delivery Update report. In Phase 4, we will include delivery questions in all our data collection approaches and produce a final assessment of delivery in the final report.
For the impact evaluation we will use a mixed-method evaluation approach which combines quantitative and qualitative methods. We identify there are six main beneficiary groups which may experience benefits as a result of the programme. These are:
Universities (organisations)
Individual researchers (e.g. participating in secondments, placements, etc.)
Individual industry participants (participating in secondments, placements, training, etc.)
Participating companies 
Wider industry – at cluster level
Wider industry – at national level
In Phase 2, we will develop a baseline for each group. In Phase 4 we will gather data following the completion of the programme. Phase 3 will include analysis of programme level data to provide interim evidence of impact. Figure 1 sets out the main data activity in each phase. 
Figure 1 Data collection activity

We propose using innovative data collection processes to gain up to date information on the labour market and companies in the creative industries. This analysis, led by Curator, will draw on LinkedIn and Meetup data to provide insight into clusters and comparator areas by mapping how networks have evolved with and without the intervention.  
We envisage that it will be possible to undertake a ‘difference-in-difference’ analysis for the companies and for four in-depth case study clusters. Phase 1 will explore and clarify our preferred approach, including the best sources of evidence to develop a counterfactual: 
Surveying unsuccessful companies in Phase 2 for the baseline (depending on coverage and quality of application data) and after the activity has completed (Phase 4). 
Using the ONS microdata lab (SRS) to identify unsuccessful and successful applicants and track their performance based on agreed metrics (e.g. employment, turnover).
Selecting four comparable (‘matched’) geographic clusters, either from unsuccessful applicants or areas with similar characteristics which did not apply to CICP. Through innovative data collection processes (using LinkedIn and Meetup data) and local stakeholder interviews, we will gather data on the maturity and creative labour market in these clusters through the life of the CICP programme (data collection in Phases 2 and 4). 
For the other beneficiaries, we will employ contribution analysis; a theory-based approach which seeks to assess the contribution of CICP to an observed change in the data. For contribution analysis, a counterfactual is not required in the same way as it is for the quasi-experimental ‘difference-in-difference’ approach. 
Detailed approach
Phase 1 - Evaluation Framework Development (March 2020-June 2020)
Task 1 Inception meeting: The project will start with an inception meeting to discuss and agree the methodology and Phase 1 timeline. At this meeting we will discuss our proposed workplan, key milestones, evaluation oversight and clear lines of communication (including regular progress phone calls). This will be summarised in a Project Initiation Document that will form the basis for monitoring progress and risks throughout the project.
Task 2 Desk research: We will undertake a structured document review which will include (but not be not limited to):
Delivery plans for each CRDP and the PEC and any existing benefits mapping; 
Sample of management and monitoring information and R&D applicant data from four CRDPs;
Individual CRDP evaluation plans and approaches;
Data submitted by award holders to researchfish; and
SQW Process Evaluation.
From this review, we will ascertain the completeness of company and researchfish data and make an assessment as to the extent to which these data sources can be used to construct a baseline for the companies and researchers. We will discuss other sources of data that might be used as part of the Inception meeting to include them in our review (for example published economic data by DCMS on the creative sector, published ONS sources, industry data published by the Creative Industries Council or other sector bodies, etc). 
Task 3 Revise the CICP logic model and develop a full Theory of Change
At a workshop with CICP and other stakeholders (for example PEC and some CRDP leads), we will interrogate the existing draft logic model for the Programme and identify key areas of strength and weakness in the current model. Following the workshop, we will produce an updated, enhanced draft Theory of Change (ToC) which includes a consideration of the underlying Programme assumptions, role of place (see above), timescales to impact and potential confounding factors that may also affect observed changes. 
We will test the draft ToC through one-to-one consultations with each of the nine clusters. The purpose of these meetings would be to: 
Test the national programme model against local CDRP plans. 
Establish progress of each CDRP programme and review the data they are collecting.
Develop a view on the maturity of the (i) University CIs R&D activity and (ii) the wider localised ecosystem.
Following these consultations, we would make a final set of revisions to the ToC.
Task 4: Develop and draft full evaluation framework and plan:  Once the ToC has been signed off, we will work rapidly to develop full evaluation framework and plan. Key components of this include:
Theory of Change. Including the key rationale for the programme, contextual factors (including enabling factors) and underlying assumptions, estimated timelines to impact, as well as inputs, activities, outputs, outcomes and impacts. The way that this ToC connects to programme objectives and the wider objective of ISCFs needs to be clearly articulated. 
Measures of success/indicators. The evaluation framework will identify appropriate indicators that measure outputs, outcomes and impacts, and set out how quantitative and qualitative evidence will be collected for each of these. 
Delivery evaluation. Key questions to be answered about the CICP process and the approach to gathering evidence to answer these questions. 
Data collection plan. Detailed plan and timeline for all our methods of data collection, taking into account the timescales of delivery by CRDPs.
Analysis and synthesis. We will set out our approach to quantitative and qualitative data analysis and synthesis into findings. 
Economic evaluation. Framework for assessing economic impact, cost benefit analysis and value for money (being clear what can be quantified and valued, and what cannot). 
We will develop a full draft of the evaluation framework for discussion at a face to face meeting with you. Following this we will revise the document and produce a Final Phase 1 report that will provide a detailed roadmap for Phases 2, 3 and 4. 
Phase 2 Baselining and interim delivery evaluation (June 2020-October 2020)
Task 5 Review and analyse available data against the framework. Where possible, we will use existing data collected by CDRPs on companies, researchers and other participants to establish a baseline. We will review the available data to highlight gaps. At this stage we anticipate some gaps which will be addressed through Tasks 6 and 7. 
Task 6 Measuring benefits for Universities, related staff and students:
Task 6a: University – quantitative. We will analyse researchfish data from UKRI monitoring or the CRDPs. This will include funding, publications and research impacts (including citations and collaborations) for all successful clusters. 
Task 6b: University – qualitative. We will undertake 4 consultations of those involved with CRDPs from universities. These interviews could include the CRDP and representatives from the senior leadership teams within universities (e.g. Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange or similar) to understand the wider context, strategic drivers and anticipated wider impact of the CICP.
Task 6c: Individual researchers – quantitative. We will design a baseline survey for individuals engaged in placement and secondment activity – this will cover those individuals from universities working in enterprises and individuals from enterprise working in universities (Task 7a). As there will be different timescales for delivery, we anticipate that this baseline survey be administered at periods appropriate to the programme delivery, i.e. when a secondment/placement/apprenticeship has been agreed, but before it commences. 
Task 6d: Individual researchers – qualitative. We will use a purposive sampling approach to select 4 case studies of individual researchers participating in placements, secondments and training. We will undertake baseline case study interviews for each project. This will include talking to the participating enterprise, researcher and individual involved in the placement. We will undertake baseline interviews to explore the current state of research and practice, as well as the desired outcomes and drivers of activity.
Task 7: Measuring benefits for industry: individual and company participants 
Task 7a: Industry individuals – quantitative. Using the same survey tool as Task 6c, we will work with CRDPs to gather baseline data for individuals from companies engaged in placements and secondments. Based on the Phase 1 data review, we will develop an agreed approach to the counterfactual, including the potential to use the business microdata held in the SRS for company-level matching.
Task 7b: Industry individuals – qualitative. Similar to Task 6d, we will develop case studies on individuals from industry who are participating in placements, secondments and training to understand the context, drivers and expected outcomes. We will hold baseline interviews with participants and the setting in which they are working. 
Task 7c: Companies – quantitative. If we find gaps in the baseline data for participating companies in Phase 1, we will design and administer a baseline survey with companies engaged in CICP R&D collaborations. This telephone survey will be administered by our research partner, Strategic Research. If necessary, we will design and administer a baseline survey for unsuccessful companies. We will aim for a response of 200 companies for each of these surveys (subject to understanding the likely sample frame available as part of our work in Phase 1). 
Task 7d: Companies – qualitative. From the list of companies participating in collaborative R&D, we will select 4 companies as subjects for case studies, using a purposive approach. We will undertake baseline interviews with the companies to identify context, challenges, aspirations for activity and progress to date (depending on stage of the activity reached at the point of the baseline interviews). 
Task 8 Tracking benefits for industry: wider (local clusters / ecosystem analysis)
Task 8a: We will select 4 CDRP clusters and 4 counterfactual clusters to track over the lifetime of CICP. We will discuss and agree the selection of these with you and identify the appropriate CI sub-sector coverage (see PROJ1.3). We will use experimental statistics (LinkedIn and Meetup data) to baseline business base, employment, skills, entrepreneurship profile and network engagement.
Task 8b: For the selected clusters (CDRPs and the counterfactuals) we will undertake 20 baseline interviews (5 per cluster) with local stakeholders including the Local Enterprise Partnerships, Creative Industries leads at councils and LEPs, and Creative England. We will explore the maturity of the cluster, the challenges and opportunities, as well as how the CRDP activity fits into the local strategies for the creative industries. 
Task 9: Wider industry (national / sectoral level):  During Phase 1 we will agree the metrics by which to evaluate the contribution of the PEC. Frontier is currently working with the ESRC to identify the contribution of its funding of “What Works Centres” which share many of the characteristics of the PEC. The evaluation is based on tracking their policy and intellectual impact through a combination of external data (e.g. citations, references in parliamentary or equivalent debates, update by industry bodies, etc.) and case studies tracing the impact of specific pieces of research or disseminated learning. This would consider how best to capture spillover effects (e.g. through assessment of citations or references from outside the target audience). Evaluation will be based on agreeing the set of metrics appropriate to the PEC. We anticipate some of these will overlap with metrics agreed for the wider Programme, while others will be specific to the PEC.
We will also undertake 10 stakeholder interviews to explore the strategic opportunities, synergies and differences between CICP and other creative industries development programmes. Anticipated stakeholders include the Creative Industries Council and representatives from DCMS (including those overseeing the Cultural Development Fund), and specific creative industry sector bodies. We will pull insights from the Audience of the Future evaluation to inform this national level perspective. 
Task 10: Reporting. We will prepare a Draft Report summarising the findings from the baseline data and the interim delivery evaluation. Following the submission of the draft, we will meet with the UKRI Evaluation team to discuss the draft and the implications of the findings. Following this we will revise and produce the Final Phase 2 Report. 
Phase 3 – Updated progress reporting and delivery evaluation (September – October 2021):  We propose focused activity in Phase 3 to meet your requirements, while ensuring efficiency in data collection and a lower risk of evaluation fatigue for participants. We suggest that Phase 3 takes place in Autumn 2021 (compared with the envisaged Spring 2021 timeline) to ensure sufficient time between Phase 2 and Phase 3. We are happy to discuss this further. 
Task 11: Meeting with UKRI Steering Group. At this meeting we will review any changes to programme design and identify how learning from activity to date has influenced changes. We will also review the evaluation framework (including ToC) and adjust as necessary. 
Task 12: Review of CICP programme level data and CDRP data against indicators in evaluation framework to provide early assessment of activities and outputs delivered, and expected outcomes and impacts. 
Task 13: Delivery workshop with nine CDRP leads on progress since Phase 2 Report. 
Task 14: Update report. This short update report will summarise the findings from Tasks 11-13 in a format that can be easily communicated with stakeholders. 
Phase 4 – Impact evaluation and final delivery, October 2023 to June 2024
The data collection tasks in this phase will largely revisit the data collection undertaken at baseline to assess changes and support the impact evaluation.
Task 15: Analysis of programme and monitoring data. Repeat of Task 5. 
Task 16: Tracking and measuring benefits for Universities and related staff and students. Repeat/follow up for Task 6. Including analysis of post-programme individual survey and follow-up interviews with case study participants. 
Task 17: Tracking and measuring benefits for industry participants. Repeat of Task 7 including follow up phone survey of 200 successful and 200 unsuccessful applicant companies and follow up to case study interviews (depending on available sample frame). 
Task 18 Tracking benefits for industry: wider (local clusters / eco system analysis). Re-visit the 4 CRDP cluster case studies and counterfactual clusters and undertake further quantitative and qualitative research. 
Task 19: Wider industry (national / sectoral level). Repeating Task 9 based on agreed metrics, to incorporate spillover effects and second round of national stakeholder interviews. 
Task 20: Cost-benefit analysis and value for money assessment Based on approach agreed in Phase 1, we expect this to draw on SRS data to understand typical employment and turnover effects and ability to generalise those across clusters. This could include a matching/difference-in-difference analysis or defining ‘treatment’ based on geographic proximity to particular clusters to provide robust estimates of key business impacts. We will provide a range of scenarios to set out upper and lower bound estimates of economic impacts, and be clear of the limitations of what is not captured in the VfM analysis (e.g. more qualitative impacts and impacts on researchers and universities captured in other Tasks). 
Task 21: Synthesis and reporting. The final report will cover the evidence from Phase 4 activity to make an assessment of overall impact of the programme. It would highlight spill-over effects and unintended outcomes. It would make a final assessment of the effectiveness of delivery; include key lessons learned and recommendations for the future.  We also propose to support wider dissemination, subject to your approval.  These activities could include developing bespoke summaries or attending cluster-related events.

[TABLE 1]
ProJ 1.1: Approach/methodology

[/TABLE]
