


MANCHESTER METROPOLITAN UNIVERSITY 
CULTURAL AND CREATIVE INDUSTRIES (CCI) OFFER






Version 2 - October 2022











www.thefifthsector.co.uk





 

 

Contents
The brief	1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY	1
Key Findings	2
Background - Manchester Met	4
Man Met’s Cultural and Creative Industries oﬀer	5
Conclusions	5
Background - Policy and economic context	6
Central government	6
City & Regional Government	6
International	7
STAKEHOLDER AND STAFF INTERVIEWS	8
Colleagues	8
External stakeholders	8
EXCELLENT EDUCATION	9
EXCELLENT RESEARCH WITH IMPACT	10
ENGAGEMENT WITH BUSINESSES	11
ENGAGEMENT WITH STRATEGIC PARTNERS	12
INTERNATIONALISATION	14
ADDRESSING SECTOR SKILLS GAPS AND SHORTAGES	14
SECTOR ENGAGEMENT	15
HERITAGE AND LEGACY	16
EQUALITY, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION	17
APPENDIX 1: Benchmarks	19
Bristol+Bath Creative Cluster (https://bristolbathcreative.org/about)	19
Politecnico di Milano	19
d.school	20
APPENDIX 2: Interviewees	22
External stakeholders	22
Manchester Met staﬀ	22
APPENDIX 3: Web site research into Manchester Met cultural and creative activity	23
Search 1: Google	23
Search 2: Googled MMU schools again:	25
Search 3: Google search for keywords	27



The brief
To provide evidence of Manchester Met’s engagement in culture and creative industries and articulate how it is positioned within the university, with stakeholders and in a Manchester/GM, national and international context.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Man Met needs to establish a narrative that complements internal strategy about the role and contribution of the university – both the Faculty of Arts & Humanities and the wider University - to enable it to position itself as a leading authority in the region and nationally for the creative and cultural economy.
The message needs to articulate strong leadership and a sense of being integrated into the city’s cultural and creative strategic future.
It needs to be backed by an overhaul of “account management” and ongoing engagement to ensure that key policy makers, cultural organisations and employers are aware of and engaged with teaching, research, cultural assets and other initiatives of the university.
Man Met rated second of ALL UK unis for art and design research in REF2021 - a huge achievement, but one that is not foregrounded or explained on the university’s web site and has not been commented upon by any of the external stakeholders with whom we engaged.
Recent REF results and signiﬁcant improvement in NSS results highlight a sense that Man Met is now in competition with Russell Group institutions; it may need to adjust its view of its audiences, peer relationships with other institutions nationally and internationally, its emphasis on bids to national funders and strategic relationships in GM and nationally accordingly.
Marketing messages need to be aligned to a clear benefits realisation strategy.
More could be done to better integrate the student experience into the cultural activity of Manchester.
 
Key Findings


Strengths
Research – Arts & Humanites faculty ranked second for art and design research impact in REF 2021.
Man Met is seen to deliver excellent education for its Arts & Humanities undergraduates with a good mix between the practical and the academic.
Strong reputation for vocational education; employers and other stakeholders praise its foresight into initiatives such as degree apprenticeships.
Contribution to Manchester’s creative workforce - both in scale and quality – recognised.
Practice-based teaching of arts and performance - an important complement to academic training.
Man Met’s eﬀorts to increase diversity and inclusion - including the high number of ﬁrst and second generation students, many of them drawn from Greater Manchester - outstrip those of other Manchester HEIs.
The campus is seen as a huge asset by senior business leaders: "it is hard-wired into the city”. It is accessible, prominent and the vibrancy from its student population is palpable. 
Man Met is seen as being more in tune with digital disciplines than either universities of Manchester or Salford; this has been greatly enhanced by the development of SODA.
Those who are closely engaged with Man Met activities at an operational level are almost uniformly complimentary about their impact.

Weaknesses
The perception of Manchester Met’s oﬀer is fragmented.
There is no clarity or uniformity amongst end users and stakeholders about Man Met’s vision for CCI – and therefore no shared sense of its vision or value.
External stakeholders tend to be focused on a single element of the university’s output (eg, employers praise impact on creative economy, project partners are bowled over by proactiveness and responsiveness of Man Met project oﬃcers, arts organisations praise practice-based training).
There is confusion about what SODA actually does.
Amongst senior business and political stakeholders, the lack of understanding of Man Met’s positioning, oﬀer or wider vision combines with the lack of clear and deﬁned “account management” or engagement process results in a very poor (and unrepresentative) perception of Man Met’s creative assets, impact (both teaching and research), reach and ambition.
Those same senior stakeholders report much greater awareness of and engagement with elements of University of Manchester’s cultural and creative oﬀer and assets than those of Man Met, including NW Film Archive, Holden Gallery, Poetry Library.
Much of Man Met’s work with communities, which impacts positively on social value, goes “under the radar”.
Dialogue and board representation with political stakeholders and and cultural organisations is dominated by the VC, meaning that there is little awareness of developments within the faculty.
There is a perceived lack of connection to current Manchester networks – IOD, Manchester Digital, Pro Manchester etc.
Lack of awareness of research excellence within Man Met and particularly in Arts & Humanities - feeling that Man Met should be more proactive in making the case for CCI through research.
Not in the frame of national discussions about creative industries - reﬂected in failure to secure funding for cluster development.
Policy makers at City Council and Combined authority are less aware of Man Met’s policies and plans (especially for CCI) than those of Universities of Manchester and Salford.
Man Met’s own web presence makes no reference to cultural and creative industries, has no single page focusing on cultural activity and events, no “call to action"or advocacy around policy and sector research.

Background - Manchester Met
Manchester Metropolitan University is one of the largest of the “post-’92” universities and one of the ten largest universities in the UK, with approximately 26,000 undergraduate and 8,000 postgraduate students, with a further 6,000 on distance learning or courses at accredited institutions overseas. It employs 4,810 staﬀ, comprising 1,610 full-time and 1,115 part-time academic staﬀ and 2,090 support staﬀ.
Arts & Humanities is one of Man Met’s four faculties, encompassing:
Department of English (Incorporating the Manchester Writing School)
Department of History, Politics and Philosophy
Department of Languages, Information and Communications
Languages, Linguistics and TESOL
Journalism, Information and Communications
Department of Sociology
Department of History, Politics and Philosophy
Department of Languages, Information and Communications
Manchester Fashion Institute
The Faculty includes Manchester School of Art, the second oldest design school in Britain, established to provide design training to the manufacturing industry. It is organised into four departments
Department of Art and Performance (Incorporating Manchester School of Theatre)
Department of Design
School of Digital Arts (SODA)
Manchester School of Architecture (a collaboration with University of Manchester)
In REF 2021, the Faculty of Arts & Humanities ranked second amongst all UK Higher Education Institutes for research power in art and design, and 70% of its research impact in English was classed as “world-leading”.

Man Met’s Cultural and Creative Industries oﬀer
Following comments from interviewees (both internal and external) which cited the diﬃculty of identifying Man Met’s cultural assets, events and policies, we carried out a desk-based exercise to establish the nature of the problem. We selected a researcher from outside Manchester who was not familiar with the university. The results, detailed in Appendix 3 below, found the following:
Manchester School of Art was ranked second in UK (NB: amongst all UK unis, not “just” art schools) for “research power” in REF2021 – but this fact is buried four clicks down. The School of Art Research Centre page talks about history and methodology, not impact.
There is no evidence of research into CCI as a sector and its impact on Manchester, nor any collation of creative economy-related research (in the sense of impact of CCI on economy)
No “call to action” for culture and creative industries research collaboration
No central page with links to arts and cultural events and facilities
No central repository for events that all departments and schools within Arts & Humanities subscribe to
Some of the pages seem to be from a previous iteration of the website – no design or navigational consistency
Conclusions
Man Met’s web site doesn’t reﬂect the impact of the combined work of the university on Manchester’s cultural and creative economy
It contains little visual representation of or reference to Manchester’s communities or the diversity of the staﬀ and student body
Some work is needed to analyse the diﬀerent audiences inculding which people may be searching for information about culture and creative industries, and why
This needs to be reﬂected in web site design and SEO

Background - Policy and economic context
Central government
Four departments govern most of the policy and investment relating to CCI with relevance to Man Met:
BEIS (Department for Business, Enterprise, Innovation and Skills), and its arms-length bodies including Arts & Humanities Research Council and Innovate UK
Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport and its arms-length bodies, including Arts Council England (ACE) and British Film Institute (BFI)
Department for International Trade (DIT)
Department for Levelling Up, Homes and Communities (DLUHC)
With the status of Government industrial and fiscal strategy in flux, other signiﬁcant strategies in this area include:
Arts Council England: Let’s Create, a strategy to 2030 which identiﬁes three priority outcomes and four investment principles for arts and culture 
Arts Council Priority Places and Levelling Up through Culture places are local authorities eligible for additional funding to address shortfalls in cultural engagement - Manchester is not among them
AHRC’s Creative Industries Cluster Programme, which established the ﬁrst clusters in Bristol & Bath, Belfast, Cardiﬀ, Dundee, Edinburgh, Leeds, London and York and the Policy & Evidence Centre. Initial ﬁve-year funding agreements for those clusters come to an end in 2023; we know that PEC is being spun out of Nesta and we await announcements of further funding. Andrew Chitty continues to express interest in/concern over the lack of a cluster in the North West, and continues to engage with local authorities and HEIs across the region.
Other threats to the sector in Manchester include uncertainty over BBC funding post Charter renewal in 2027 and the Government’s policy to privatise Channel 4, which is expected to result in reduced demand for new programming from smaller independent producers.
 City & Regional Government
Manchester City Council and Greater Manchester Combined Authority (GMCA) respectively determine cultural, economic development and innovation policy for the city and city region. They have diﬀerent areas of responsibility and statutory duties but are broadly aligned (if not actively coordinated).
GMCA’s cultural strategy (“Grown in Greater Manchester. Known Around The World.”) sets targets for increased cultural engagement alongside plans for investment in creative businesses and creative skills. But there is a clear gap between the expression of these targets and the Innovate GM strategy, a “blueprint” for increasing investment in R&D which focuses heavily on traditional “STEM’ areas of industry. Between the two documents, there is no convincing analysis or expression of ambition for “media”, the combined elements of content creation, communications and digital technology which are a major and visible contributor to the city region’s economy and cultural life.
International
Withdrawal from the European Union and loss of access to structural funds has had a negative impact on creative industries businesses, which now have less access to R&D funding, face increased tariﬀ and non-tariﬀ barriers to European markets, and can less easily plug skills gaps and shortages with EU labour. The continuing uncertainty around whether the UK will reach agreement on its engagement as a full partner in the Horizon Europe R&I programme, which issue the EU has linked to resolution of issues around trade agreements for Northern Ireland, means that UK-based researchers may be further disadvantaged in competition for funding.
Increasing geo-political tension with China – including UK Government’s more “hawkish” position on the security threat represented by its military, cyber and technology transfer operations -  is already dampening hopes of expanding demand for UK creative content and technology in one of the world’s largest markets - this following a decade in which DIT and its predecessors directed both eﬀort and treasure into securing increased access to those consumers.
Combined with global inﬂationary pressures which may suppress demand for “discretionary” spend on entertainment and leisure, these factors contribute to a challenging business environment. Whilst Manchester’s indigenous creative ﬁrms have proved themselves resilient and agile in their response to previous downturns, the combination of risks of divestment by international partners and suppressed demand make it all the more important that the sector continues to innovate in order to survive.
 

STAKEHOLDER AND STAFF INTERVIEWS
We engaged interviewees around a semi-structured questionnaire, with interviews conducted online between March and August 2022. Areas explored through the interviews included:
Colleagues
Recruitment: how is the CCI oﬀer expressed and understood?
Curriculum: what are the most signiﬁcant factors – student demand; funding; employer demand?
How does (or is) inclusion factored into recruitment and curriculum? What works needs to be done?
Alumni relationships – how important are they? How do they use them at the moment? Is there potential to use them more or more eﬀectively?
Key stakeholders and linkages – existing and aspirational (opening out the question)
What is the current strategic thinking as regards CCI?  
What is Man Met’s impact on Manchester’s creative economy?
8	Impact on cultural engagement, participation and perception.
External stakeholders
The approach to external stakeholders was adapted to take account of their diﬀerent needs and perspectives, but focused on similar themes:
How aware are you of Manchester Met’s creative and cultural oﬀer? What does that mean to you?
Does Manchester Met’s creative and cultural oﬀer directly beneﬁt you, your family, your friends?
Do you think Manchester Met’s creative and cultural oﬀer is directly involved in the local community?
What does it do well?
What does it not do so well?
How important is Manchester Met’ s creative and cultural oﬀer as a driver of GM’s economy?
Could Manchester Met’s creative and cultural oﬀer do more to support the local economy?
What do you think the role of Manchester Met’s creative and cultural oﬀer is in promoting Manchester internationally?
How good is it at widening participation?
Have you visited the campus? If not, why?
Interviewees’ responses have been categorised under headings of the Road to 2030 Strategy. We have used these headings to suggest a framework within which to review the ﬁndings as part of the recommendation to address a new narrative around Culture and Creative Industries.
(One further note: all external stakeholders referred to the university as “MMU” - we have changed references to “Man Met” for consistency.)
EXCELLENT EDUCATION
Employers and stakeholders perceive that Man Met is delivering high quality and appropriate teaching at undergraduate level, and that the city’s creative economy is the beneﬁciary.
SODA is “doing it"– delivering what it said it would. The importance of the university to the Manchester economy is “seismic”. The quality of courses on offer is excellent with good links to industry. They have successfully navigated the challenge of how to design degree courses that are relevant and what is needed.
The complementary focus on practice-based and vocational learning alongside academic study was praised.
In the School of Art, they equip people to be lone creatives, which is very much needed for the sector. 
The University of Manchester has a big gallery but their work on the ground isn’t the same as Man Met, which has much more interesting arts courses. SODA is a fantastic opportunity to be more vocational. 
There was praise too for industry-focussed work such as Unit X – bringing together students from diﬀerent disciplines to work on live project briefs. 
Some of the practice is quite innovative- it isn’t dry theory. How they prepare students is good and the quality of teaching and students is good. Their graduate work is interesting.
There was some concern that Man Met needed to extend its pastoral care to students, particularly those looking to pursue a career in the arts, beyond graduation:
I would like to see a more active experience for the students in the city - whether that's around engaging with the cultural offer year round or thinking more actively about the transition from being a student to post-student. That's where universities could have a top level relationship with the cultural sector. What is the offer that we're making to retain these potentially very valuable citizens in the city at a crucial moment where they need support and they need space, spaces to work? 
EXCELLENT RESEARCH WITH IMPACT
Man Met’s reputation for research amongst external stakeholders is less consistent:
Could Man Met do more to actually research the [Creative Industries] sector? Last good piece of work was by New Economy in 2016. City Council and others need recent analysis to properly assess the challenges, particularly post-pandemic. LUDEC is a really good example of cross-faculty research but who knows about it?
There was a feeling - to an extent, reinforced by the impact of SODA - that Man Met’s research was focused in digital (as opposed to creative) disciplines:
Man Met can be part of driving economic growth for the sector and not just a supplier of talent. We need to see far more about how the sector is growing and evolving and whilst there is lots of work in the digital space, particularly around cyber security, there's less research going on in creative space and we could work far more closely with Man Met to think about the overall development of the sector. 
This contrasts with the internal perspective of greater research intensity in wider creative disciplines:
What's happening within the faculty is that since the merger with the School of Art, we have seen a gravitational shift towards the creative disciplines, towards the Social Sciences, whereas it used to be the Humanities that stood at the centre of the Faculty and that formed the core of our research activity. 
Man Met’s success in REF 2021, where it is ranked second for arts & design research out of all UK HEIs, represents the outcome of a huge internal eﬀort to prioritise and change staﬀ thinking around the importance of research:
Like all “new” universities, we are carrying the burden of legacy where teaching is the bread and butter and always has to come first. Research activity in any part of the University was regarded as something people do as a hobby. So it wasn't core to the University strategy in any way. 
Recent REF results meant Man Met had, “made it into the upper quartile, and that's just amazing." Four research institutes, nine departments, 116 members of staff returned REF submissions, 55% of staff engaged in research, including four star research, with School of Art scoring highest of Man Met’s four faculties. 
The drive to focus as much attention on research excellence as on teaching has come from the top of the organisation and is reﬂected in the realignment of the university’s mission as reﬂected in the 2030 strategy:
Recently the Heads of Research and Education have become Directors and this is definitely a reflection of the ambition of the university and the influence these roles play, particularly within the faculty.
However, research success has come about as much through a change of behaviour as from a mandate to increase the volume and quality of research:
The statistic that I saw and that triggered my conversion was that currently, apparently 85% of all arts and humanities research outputs don't get any citations at all. So what does this mean for the research we do? It isn't actually received by anybody, and that's something that we need to address. So it's no longer just an institutional agenda to help the institution, to build its global reputation, but it actually matters to individual researchers. What can we do to ensure that our work is actually received by the people we are sending it to? 
There was some reﬂection on increasing awareness of the respective and complementary beneﬁts of teaching and research for both staﬀ and students:
The two pillars going forward are definitely education and research, and the institution is keen - we are all keen - to start treating those equally and to think about two career pathways for academic staff, one via education, one via research, as on a par. How can we make sure that they are genuinely on a par and that the education pathway isn't just emulating the research pathway, but they are distinctly different, but at the same time, of equal value and of equal significance and prestige to the institution.
We need to find a way in which we can explain to our undergraduate students how they benefit from being in receipt of research informed or research-led teaching. I think we've made some efforts in that area. We're bringing in undergraduate students as research interns into some of our research centres so that between their second and third year over the summer, they are paid to take on the role of research assistant for an area that will also be the area in which they think about pursuing their research for their final third year project, be it dissertation or whatever.
ENGAGEMENT WITH BUSINESSES
Generally, it was felt that Man Met oﬀers ﬂexibility and a level of enthusiastic openness to work with industry.
It is challenging itself to get the language right with business and is getting more confident and better at it. The volume of talent is hugely attractive to business and a huge incentive for inward investment. But the university is “an enormous dinosaur"and it is hard for it to pivot and turn at a commercial pace. They could make the “pathway to talent"easier.
For SMEs, the turnover of staﬀ at Man Met can make it diﬃcult to continue the conversations. The appointment of one person to handle apprenticeship development for the sector was cited as a good example of how a single named contact can help.
There are good achievements in developing Degree Apprenticeships, but they only really took off when one identified post was created to engage with business.
Along with a lack of clarity around what SODA actually is and what it is delivering, there was a sense of a need for greater support and an unmet opportunity for those students pursuing careers in the arts: 
There is untapped potential for graduates to develop careers in the North. 
The sense that Man Met needed to do more to support graduates in other ways was reﬂected in a call for greater involvement in investment and incubation of new creative businesses:
I would like to see Man Met doing something in the investment space. We partner with 68 universities now in England, developing incubators, investment programmes and accelerators for early stage creative businesses. I think it’s a rich opportunity and I’d like to see Man Met get more involved. To really unlock growth you do need complementary investment support so that you're actually able to influence growth in those businesses rather than just pointing them to support .
ENGAGEMENT WITH STRATEGIC PARTNERS
There are some major shortcomings exposed in conversation with senior stakeholders from BBC and City Council. An external stakeholder pointed out that they used an international platform around UNESCO Year of Literature (2018) to boost the announcement of SODA but then didn’t hear further from Man Met about it until he was invited to the launch in June 2022. 
A BBC employee with responsibility for the Corporation’s relations with stakeholders out of London stated that they had no strategic relationship with the university:
When there was a Head of the BBC in the North, people knew who to contact. Now there’s no named individual and people don’t know who to contact. There may well be another nominated person at the BBC to help but it’s all about learning to navigate the organisation rather than developing a relationship with an individual. We haven’t cracked yet how to manage a more strategic and less transactional relationship (with universities). I think there’s an opportunity to build a relationship but it's not an MoU. It's about being aware of each other and understanding. It's as much about Man Met understanding what we’re going through as us understanding what Man Met is going through.
In both cases, these stakeholders were aware of Prof Malcolm Press and “saw him at one or two events”, but no-one else in the university. This was contrasted with engagement with University of Manchester at many levels, including through the Whitworth and Creative Manchester.
Creative UK reﬂected similar issues, characteriseing its relationship with Man Met as one based around referrals rather than a strategic one based on co-design and delivery.
Frequent changes in personnel and shifts in policy had resulted in a lack of “institutional memory”:
The institutional memory of the organisation changes so much that people are reinventing things all the time.
Interviewees remarked on how poor Man Met is at marketing itself to its alumni, particularly compared to Manchester University’s alumni support which was described as "slick”. (One of those stakeholders had an undergraduate degree from Man Met and a Master’s from University of Manchester, and reﬂected far greater engagement with the latter.) This is one part of an issue raised by several stakeholders, which highlighted that Man Met communications are not tailored to their audiences:
Man Met aren’t great at marketing themselves. There is a lack of connectivity between the Arts Council and all HEI’s and I would welcome a more strategic partnership.
I'm sure there's loads of data in the annual report that they send me every year but it goes straight in the bin because it's really dull. 
There was both direct criticism and a plea for greater engagement to and alignment with industry and policy forums:
Amongst my wishes would be that Man Met aligns itself more closely with partner organisations and other institutions that share the same agenda so there’s some complementarity and alignment and coherence for businesses on the support that is available . It could be better aligned with the operational delivery in the city. 
There is a need to be better connected to current Manchester networks – IOD, Man Digital, Pro Manchester, etc. Man Met’s presence on the GM Business Leadership Team was very lacklustre and without focus.
It was suggested that Man Met could play bigger role in the city’s major development of Innovation GM – the new innovation quarter in the old UMIST buildings, described as an “absolutely huge opportunity" for the sector:
Be part of the future – IGM [Innovation Greater Manchester] needs the next big idea post-pandemic: do something radical. 
This stakeholder emphasised that Man Met’s involvement needed to go beyond delivery of shared workspace to look at meeting wider needs in the sector, and addressing the challenge of aﬀordability.
Lack of direct investment in the sector was also criticised:
Our relationship has taken steps backwards in recent years. Speciﬁcally, a decision to withdraw all funding from partner organisations across the city. It’s made it more diﬃcult for us to negotiate a relationship with Man Met because we need to have parity in what we’re doing in terms of other universities and it's not making an equivalent contribution. As part of that our relationship with the Art School has ceased; we do continue to have a relationship with SODA directly that is tied in around shared aspirations around digital.
Digital organisations and digital departments like SODA tend to have a much more active relationship to things like government policy and research. But what's the potential for the art school, the theatre school, the poetry library and the writing course, to think what might be the partnerships that could draw down funding. What might they look like?
The need for real and sustained engagement was succinctly summarised by one policy maker:
I feel communication with Man Met but not deep involvement. And that’s different with University of Manchester and University of Salford, I feel much more deeply involved with UoM and Salford. I need to feel ownership as well as engagement. 
INTERNATIONALISATION
Man Met assets (archive and current) could be part of a “Manchester calling card" and they could be able to do what Marketing Manchester and the rest of the Manchester family cannot.
There was an emphasis on the importance of Man Met’s involvement in major events to promote the city and its creative sector: UNESCO City of Literature 2017 https://www.manchestercityoﬂiterature.com/ was cited as an example of how Man Met helped put Manchester on the international map. Another respondent referred to international trade missions to New York held in the early 2000’s as having a major and lasting impact on the city’s music sector, and the opportunities for individual artists and producers within that.
ADDRESSING SECTOR SKILLS GAPS AND SHORTAGES
Business respondents emphasised continuing skills shortages across development and producers roles – which is even worse at senior and executive levels. This applies to production managers, stage managers, freelance technicians – everyone across Manchester and the Northern Culture Network is experiencing the same thing. This is exacerbated by competition for talent from established facilities in London and the South East:
There's not enough investment to support that supply chain of talent and enabling them to make businesses in our city so they don't all end up going to Pinewood Studios. 
Degree Level Apprenticeships hold out a diﬀerent opportunity to address gaps in middle and senior management:
We're talking about how we might leverage things like Factory Skills Academy, money coming into the Combined Authorities, the intent for UK Shared Prosperity Fund, and a chunk of extra money for skills to intervene in the supply chain of senior leaders. Man Met’s Degree Level Apprenticeships mean that we can put somebody in our organisation on a one or two year MSc in management for £600 a year and grow our own rather than trying to try to poach from others. I'm thinking: our programme team are doing fine at the moment, give them a bit more money for the responsibility but then take the £60k I was going to spend on two senior managers I’m not able to recruit for, feed it in at the bottom. I could employ a Creative Leadership Fellow or Creative Management Fellow at say, £30k or £40k  for two years and give them an MSc. 
This prompted a thought about wider collaboration:
Why don't we have a comprehensive programme for that across the North? The challenge is we've got to give them 20% of their working week - a day a week- to be able to do the course.
Other employers saw the problem of recruitment and retention occurring in digital, rather than creative, skills:
We have never had a problem recruiting creative teams. Where we do have a challenge that the rest of the city has, is the recruitment and retention of digital skills and it's an issue for us here in Salford. The DG has announced a goal of creating 1,000 apprenticeships across the BBC – 500 external and 500 staff apprenticeships. That connection between the BBC apprenticeships team and the university would be critical.
SODA potentially reconciles these positions:
Industry needs people with cross-disciplinary skills now and at SODA they’re tackling that. We say now that you have to be a Jack of All Trades but master of one and you still need to be broadly and generally capable across a range of skills. There’s a need to understand practical realities as opposed to academic theories.
SECTOR ENGAGEMENT
Music
Music is a key driver for export in the city and could support social mobility and it’s something Man Met could do better.
They could be all over the music sector: developing the artist, developing the performance, in-kind support for music activity and events. It’s such an obvious one for this city. And being a bit more strategic and putting more effort into getting graduates to experience the brand of Manchester rather than the branding of Man Met.
Digital/Media
There was a general consensus with external stakeholders that Man Met is comfortable with the “digital" part of the agenda but it was suggested that it needs to do more to show its engagement with and understanding of the wider creative sector.
Certain people we engage with are stronger on the digital side than on the creative industries side, so there’s greater comfort in supporting the digital/tech side of the sector than outside of the sector. There’s less of an understanding on supporting the creative economy more widely. 
This was linked to a wider problem with the understanding and expression of the value of creative industries as part of Manchester’s economic and innovation agenda:
When they talk about the creative industries, all Nancy [Rothwell] sees, and actually, I think to some extent all Man Met sees, is people making websites, coding, doing digital s**t. They're not thinking about the broader base of the ecology, and how artists and craftspeople and all those other makers are significant in that ecology as well. 
Fashion
Man Met could do more to promote the industry and its supply chains:
We used to be a textile city. Why are we not leveraging the collaborative opportunities to do more in this area? It could be a game-changer. Has research into textiles moved out of the Faculty?
Architecture & Design
There was no reference made to Manchester School of Architecture or to the teaching and research in design by any of the interviewees.
HERITAGE AND LEGACY
There are very low levels of awareness of Man Met’s cultural “assets"– including presence of NW Film Archive in Central Library as well as Poetry Library, Holden Gallery, theatre in the New Grosvenor Building - especially when contrasted with University of Manchester’s museums and galleries, John Rylands Library etc.- despite the assertion that the university is “stuﬀed to the gills"with such assets.
We've got this massive asset, which is the School of Art, which I think a lot of people in the city are not seeing because they only see science and maths, graphene or healthcare. They're important, but they're not seeing this other thing. Because I think economically, lots of people pay lip service to it, see that there are viable careers in it, but they don't really get it.
Colleagues had a very distinct view of the way in which engagement with the university should take place:
 We are here as a university to provide education and do research and in so doing, we engage with the public. But if you took our education and research away, that engagement would look very different, and that’s not what we’re here to do, per se.
Other stakeholders pointed to the wider Northern challenge and opportunity in which Man Met could play a leading role; and that it needs to leverage the strength of the School of Art through NP11, which is “where the money is going to go”:
DCMS has opened a significant office in Manchester; how are they interfacing with that? What are they doing around that? We can speak directly to Ministers; I had a meeting recently with the Permanent Secretary at DCMS. That's never happened in my time. So we should try to think about how we can leverage those contacts - that needs a proper plan. The city needs to understand much more about the economic value of all of this and where it sits because to me that's about to take it to the next level. The M62 corridor is going to be really significant in the long term sustainability of the creative and digital industries in the North. And I think there needs to be a lot more collaboration around that rather than competition.
EQUALITY, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
Respondents praised Man Met’s success in attracting ﬁrst and second-generation students and observed a real diﬀerence between the new entrants to the workforce and those from other institutions in that respect.
 Rather than focus on any international perspective, respondents encouraged more engagement with, "local and community wealth, non-extractive wealth.”
It was clear that many staﬀ were motivated by and felt pride in the social mobility promoted by Man Met:
I joined in from the University of Manchester and there were a lot of people at the time who were warning me against going to an ex-Poly. And I actually liked the challenge - very much. And I liked the mission statement of Man Met at the time, because I've always regarded our institution as an institution that is first and foremost about generating social mobility. That's something that the University of Manchester, by its very nature, doesn't do. Their students arrive middle class and they leave middle class, whereas something happens in the three years that most of our students are with us, they undergo a kind of transformation. I think I've got a lot of colleagues who have gone through the same transformation as undergraduates. So there is an understanding and there's a level of empathy not just for the benefits that that brings, but it also goes hand in hand with a certain degree of alienation from your roots as a working class person. 
Culture, the creative industries and the university’s own cultural assets all have an important role in increasing equality, diversity and inclusion:
Man Met does well in getting lots of people on the foundation courses from a wide range of socio economic backgrounds, into pathways into arts and culture and into the sector. But engagement with the cultural sector needs to be focused, more rational and more consistent. 
In terms of inclusion, I feel strongly that [Man Met’s cultural assets] are here to support the University’s mission on inclusion and I think they are a really brilliant way in which we do that. And I think they are really effective. And this was also my Rylands experience: helping to challenge and tackle some of those barriers, mostly perceived, in engagement.
However, several respondents clearly thought Man Met could identify more strongly with its local community:
There is no targeting of diverse communities in one of the most diverse cities in the country. There is no sense of them attracting local students and staff. They could definitely play a bigger role in widening participation. 
It’s all about the workforce. Man Met’s own workforce needs to better reflect its community right from the top. Could its own workforce better reflect the city’s diverse community? 
I don't know how much interest there is in the Art School in socially engaged practice, which is where the interface with communities is significant. That area of work is becoming increasingly significant in the world - it’s written into Let's Create, for example. I wonder how much that's been considered in the development of modules or courses across the university, the School of Art and SODA? That's going to be significant in terms of employability, but also just the direction of travel – that’s the way the world's going. That would help their emphasis with communities as well.
In order to attract a more diverse audience, you need to do things differently:
We found very quickly that the people that we really wanted to engage and we wanted to reach, found it quite difficult to join us on campus because they didn't know what to expect. They had never been inside a University building. So we started thinking about, it's not good enough to advertise a lecture as a public lecture. If the public doesn't turn up, if it's just all the usual suspects, (I think we refer to them as the chattering classes of Manchester) they would come, they would flock to us. So we'd try to think about other venues, where could we create a kind of third space, where we could meet with those other demographics?
And then also the discrepancy between how we try to tackle this, the public engagement challenge, and how the University of Manchester did it, because they still run it under the banner of social responsibility, which, to me is incredibly patronising. 

APPENDIX 1: Benchmarks
Bristol+Bath Creative Cluster (https://bristolbathcreative.org/about)
This partnership between UWE Bristol, Bath, Bath Spa and Bristol universities secured £6.8m in funding from Innovate UK in 2018. It has a very clear position statement around its core values, Creativity, Inclusivity, CO-Creation and Sharing, and a focus on the relationship between place-based work and globalism in its “Here + There” strand of action research.
There are obvious parallels between Man Met and UWE Bristol - another “post-‘92” university sharing space with its larger Russell Group neighbour - but also a signiﬁcant diﬀerence in that it is arguably identiﬁed as the intellectual lead in the area of creative industries, ahead of its larger neighbour and the University of Bath.
UWE has a much clearer call to action around CCI, even in the nomenclature of, “The Faculty of Arts, Creative Industries and Education”, and clearer focus on continuing professional development, including in the area of, “Creative Technologies, which cover a wide range of specialties ranging from Computer Science to Audio and Music Technology.”
Taking a wider view of the cluster also leads us to consider the University of Bath’s consistent rise in both student satisfaction and other teaching and research rankings. Bath describes itself as a “public research university” and the lead message on its web page is, “Bath graduates are highly valued and sought after by leading graduate employers.” Although it doesn’t teach art, design or creative industries, it still makes a contribution to the cluster’s work on understanding the impact of creativity on other aspects of society, including the global creative economy, through other humanities disciplines, including economics.
Politecnico di Milano
Politecnico di Milano (Polimi) is a world-class example of a university that has managed to build over time structural links between teaching, university and businesses.
The university, founded in 1863, is a scientiﬁc- technological institution which trains engineers, architects and industrial designers. Its 47,170 students include 7,231 architects and 4,294 designers (the rest are engineers). It is ﬁfth ranked globally (and third in Europe) for Art & Design (QS World University Rankings) International students (7,124) outnumber undergraduate students by a ratio 3:1, showing the importance they attribute to the institution in shaping their careers.
Fondazione Politecnico di Milano is the main civic interface between Polimi, businesses and public administration. The university managed to activate 281 EU FP7 funded projects, securing funding for €90 million. Most of the projects are focused in IT, construction, management and industrial design, and many of the partnerships are created with NGOs, focusing on the wellbeing of the community.
In 2003 Fondazione Politecnico di Milano funded a business incubator (PoliHub), which oﬀers incubation spaces, businesses support programmes, as well as coworking areas and oﬃces shared by start-ups and companies such Samsung and MSC Cruise, a section of the large Mediterranean Shipping Company.
We have more than two thousand active relationships with businesses, based in Italy and beyond. The relationships we create allow students and researchers to keep their work connected to the real world. At the same moment, businesses beneﬁt of the methodologically strong research we do here.
Manuela Pizzagalli, Fondazione Polimi
d.school
Its premises are outstanding; its focus is on design; its projects are often social issues rather than commercial ones, and its resource (especially in the form of endowments from alumni, but also in the form of student fees of $46,000 per annum), is well beyond anything that Man Met could expect to harness.
How does Stanford, and in particular d.school, relate to Man Met’s strategic context? d.school in its current form emerged over the period 2004 to 2009. It isn’t a “school” and doesn’t award degrees. Although formally part of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, it works with graduate students and staﬀ from, ”engineering, medicine, business, law, the humanities, sciences, and education”. It was initially a small group of Stanford professors, some design entrepreneurs from the Bay Area and a rotating base of teaching fellows, hired to bring fresh perspectives.
Rather than a corporate strategy, d.school embraces a number of “founding principles”:
Be radically student-centred
Embrace clashing perspectives
Show unﬁnished work
Focus on the how, not the what
Seek out fresh minds
Allow people to opt in
Build in room for change
Remember learning is a designed activity
Find a balance between chaos and control
Pay attention to team dynamics What this means in practice is:
It focuses on developing individuals.
It has a simple and clearly expressed value proposition - “the innovator, not the innovation”
It has a focus on “training the trainers” - two of its six programmes (K12 and Academics at Stanford) are exclusively for educators, whilst a third (University Innovation) is a partnership of Stanfrod academic staﬀ and students. Other programmes focus on executive education and an ‘entrepreneur in residence’ program for existing designers.
Its activity is expressed as designing social change, not applied research for industry. And even then, it focuses on individual capabilities as a way to achieve that change, rather than consultancy for public organisations:
The purpose of Designing for Social Systems is to empower leaders and practitioners in the nonproﬁt, philanthropy, government, and social impact ﬁelds to work in more eﬀective, human, and strategic ways. In collaboration with these practitioners, we aim to redesign how this work is done, develop more eﬀective interventions, and advance the sector as a whole.
Despite the seeming lack of commercial focus, much of its activity is funded by corporate partners, who appreciate the “system thinking” approach to design.
 

APPENDIX 2: Interviewees

External stakeholders
Lou Cordwell, Chief Creative Oﬃcer at Magnetic and Chair of Greater Manchester Local Economic Partnership
Pete Courtie, Senior Relationship Manager, Arts Council England
Sarah Elderkin, Principal Policy Oﬃcer, Manchester City Council
Kate Gaskell, Skills Project Manager, GMCA.
Nick Grimshaw, Head of Partnerships, Creative UK
Sandy Lindsay, CEO Tangerine and former NW Business Leadership Team
John McGrath, Artistic Director and Chief Executive, Manchester International Festival
Alison McKenzie-Folan, Culture portfolio lead for GMCA and Chief Executive of Wigan Council
Rose Marley, Chief Executive, Co-Operatives UK (previously Chief Executive, Sharp Futures)
Adrian Mills, Chief Operating Oﬃcer, BBC England
Dave Moutrey, Director and Chief Executive HOME, Director of Culture for Manchester City Council
Simon Nokes, Executive DIrector Policy and Strategy, GMCA
Luthfur Rahman, Deputy Mayor, Manchester City Council
Manchester Met staﬀ
Rachel Beckett, Director of Library and Cultural Services Janneke Geene, Associate Director of Cultural Services Marie Grey, Director of Marketing
Prof Sharon Handley, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Culture and Community (Prior to this role, Sharon was the
Pro-Vice-Chancellor for the Faculty of Arts and Humanities)
Dr Rachelle Viader Knowles, Head of International for Arts & Humanities
Prof Berthold Schoene, Faculty Head of Research and Knowledge Exchange
 


APPENDIX 3: Web site research into Manchester Met cultural and creative activity

Google search for ‘MMU’ and navigating website carried out w/c 25 July 2022:
Initial search for ﬁnding cultural activities through MMU did not bring up any obvious links to (arts) schools.
Googled “MMU schools” and found:
Department of Nursing
Department of Social Care and Social Work
Department of Psychology
Department of Health Professions
School of Childhood, Youth and Education Studies
School of Teacher Education and Professional Development
There are individual pages for each arts school which you need some knowledge of to ﬁnd by direct Google search (ie MMU SODA / MMU art).
Once on these pages, events pages are easy to click through to and show events related to that school.
The MMU Teacher Training page promotes arts and culture (‘our venues’) but does not mention SODA / Modal Gallery, Bunker Talks, Poetry Library. In hindsight, this page looks very out of date.
Overall, disjointed approach with no cross promoting.
 It should be noted that this research is being carried out during the summer holidays. 
Search 1: Google
MMU SODA > https://www.schoolofdigitalarts.mmu.ac.uk/
MMU art > https://www.art.mmu.ac.uk/ leads to:
Manchester School of Architecture
Manchester School of Theatre
Faculty of Arts & Humanities leads to:
Art, Media and Design (Manchester School of Art);
Humanities, Languages and Social Science
Fashion (Manchester Fashion Institute) Faculty of Art > Events:
[Clicks from https://www.art.mmu.ac.uk to events: 1] 
Exhibitions x3:
Slip.Stream.Slip at Modal Gallery, School of Digital Arts
SIGNALS at Holden Gallery
Reckless Sleepers: Bunker Talk #108 at The Salutation
 Links to past shows (digital archive)
Degree show
MA Show
Quartet Exhibition
Bunker Talks
Faculty of Arts & Humanities > Events
[Clicks from https://www.art.mmu.ac.uk/ to events: 2]
5 literary events inc. Poetry Library, Talking Place online and at the International Anthony Burgess Foundation & QuietManDave Prize 2022 at the Grosvenor East Building.
Faculty of Arts & Humanities > News:
[These events don’t show up in the past events link so we cannot tell if they were advertised on the events page]
[Clicks from https://www.art.mmu.ac.uk/ to news: 2]
Thursday, 28th July 2022: Multilingual poetry project Mother Tongue Other Tongue celebrates 10th anniversary
Wednesday, 20th July 2022: Students explore love’s forms at Manchester Art Gallery
Monday, 4th July 2022: Helen Mort and Kim Moore shortlisted for top UK poetry prize / University lecturers in the running for Forward Prize for Poetry’s £10,000 best collection award
Tuesday, 28th June 2022 Schools need to provide inclusive education to integrate migrant pupils, research suggests / New policy brief reveals more support is needed so migrant pupils can feel a sense of belonging
Monday, 27th June 2022: Fashion student takes home top prize for range plan at Graduate Fashion Week awards/ Francesca Merrick announced as winner during annual celebration of design talent
Friday, 17th June 2022: Grenfell Tower anniversary: how a quilt in the making is a symbol of the community’s love and quest for justice / Dr Lynn Setterington writes about how quilt-making gives people the means to engage with the key issues of our time
Friday, 17th June 2022: School of Art academics exhibit textiles and ﬁlm in London exhibition / Dr Michelle Stephens and Rachel Kelly’s new works explore loss of weaving traditions
Friday, 17th June 2022: Manchester Poetry Library: Festival of Libraries and revered Yiddish poet exhibition form packed programme / June promises to be a busy month for the city's newest public library
Faculty of Arts & Humanities > RAH!
[Clicks from https://www.art.mmu.ac.uk/ to RAH!: 2]
[Clicks from https://www.art.mmu.ac.uk/ to RAH! > events: 3]
RAH! (Research in Arts and Humanities) - public engagement programme of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, a rolling programme of events on a range of topics, disciplines and research areas from across the faculty and throughout the academic year.
0 events
 
SODA
[Clicks from https://www.schoolofdigitalarts.mmu.ac.uk/ to news & events: 1] Blog list (news articles). No events diary. 1 overseas event.
[Clicks from https://www.schoolofdigitalarts.mmu.ac.uk/ to Modal Gallery: 2]
Brand new gallery space: cutting-edge, immersive digital artwork using the latest technologies across three major exhibitions a year. Large LED façade, cinema, open plan gallery in the heart of Manchester.
24 June – 18 September 2022:
Slip.Stream.Slip: Resistance and Velocity in Game Engine Culture Faculty of Theatre
[Clicks from https://www.theatre.mmu.ac.uk/ to events: 1]
Summer season - 3 plays (Apr & May 22) 
Search 2: Googled MMU schools again:
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/engagement/schools-and-colleges/ [teacher training] https://www.mmu.ac.uk/engagement/schools-and-colleges/arts-and-culture/ [Home⇢Engagement⇢Schools & Colleges⇢Arts and Culture]
Provides a list of cultural venues to visit, although may be very out of date:
Axis Art Centre, Crewe [still exists?]
Capitol Theatre, Manchester
Holden Gallery Manchester
MMU Special Collections
North West Film Archive
Manchester Children’s Book Festival
Humanities in Public Festival (2015) 
Holden Gallery Manchester
[https://www.holdengallery.mmu.ac.uk] 
Events: 0 events (past events listed) 
Exhibitions: 1 event (past events listed) -Interruptions
LIVE ART AND PERFORMANCE - a series of one-oﬀ live art performances, workshops, and ﬁlm screenings that usually takes place in the main gallery in between exhibitions. Its format provides an experimental platform for presenting ideas; it is an invitation for artists to test and deliver new or in-development projects.
Past Events
Videos are available on our Youtube channel.
MMU Special Collections
[Clicks from https://www.mmu.ac.uk/special-collections-museum to Whats On: 1] 2 events
North West Film Archive
[Clicks from https://www.mmu.ac.uk/north-west-ﬁlm-archive to News & Events page: 1] 0 events
Manchester Children’s Book Festival
[Clicks from https://www.mmu.ac.uk/mcbf/ to Events: 1]
0 events – this is the precursor to the poetry library 
Manchester Poetry Library
[Clicks from https://www.mmu.ac.uk/poetrylibrary/ to Events: 1] 
Whats On:
Current Projects
Poetry and Collaboration
Events (3)
 Humanities in Public Festival [https://www.mmu.ac.uk/hip/?_gl=1*hvgwgc*_ga*NTI5Njg4OTU0LjE2NTkzODEwMzM.*_ga_GM9BQBMQVH*MTY1OTQ1   MjAzMi41LjEuMTY1OTQ1NTMzOS40NA.. ]
Humanities in Public superceded by RAH!
Search 3: Google search for keywords 
MMU + festival
[https://www.mmu.ac.uk/mif/ - is this a landing page? How do you discover it? Found this after 3.5 hrs desk research]
[ﬁrst page to mention / list ‘Schools of Creativity’: Man School of Art, Writing School, School of Architecture & School of Theatre ]
3 events:
Faculty of Arts and Humanities » Student Opportunities » The Home Festival
Community Learning Festival
Manchester International Festival 
MMU + library
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/library
Links to Special Collections Museum / North West Film Archive / Poetry Library 
Leads infoskill workshops (x3)
MMU + cinema
SODA > outreach programme oﬀering a series of online and oﬄine workshops, events and activities No cinema screenings
MMU + theatre
Collaborations with The Hallé; HOME; New National Theatre of Tokyo; Manchester International Festival; RNCM 
MMU + ﬁlm
North West Film Archive 
MMU + gigs
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/student-life/events/ - 11x mindfulness workshops https://www.mmu.ac.uk/english/about-us/events/ - 5x literary events https://theunionmmu.native.fm/ - student union events page
MMU students union has facilities for Conferencing; Gala dinners; Award ceremonies; Comedy nights; Club nights; Live music; Screenings; Fairs and markets; traditional pub
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/d/united-kingdom--manchester/mmu/ - MMU on Eventbrite 
https://www.instagram.com/mmueventmanagement/?hl=en-gb MMU on instagram 
https://www.songkick.com/venues/3150674-union-mmu MMU on songkick
 https://mmuperu.co.uk/news-events/ MMU Policy Evaluation & Research Unit (events) – Manchester Crime and Justice Film Festival / Insights 22 Festival
MMU + dance
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/sport/ﬁnd-a-sport/dance weekly classes and competition teams inc. FB & twitter feeds
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/d/united-kingdom--salford--10241/mmu-dance/  MMU + poetry
Poetry Library & Research Group
Manchester Poetry Prize 
MMU + art
https://www.art.mmu.ac.uk/ 
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/artshumanities/ 
Twitter
https://www.artsforhealth.org/ events > https://artsforhealthmmu.blogspot.com/
Facebook
MMU + exhibition https://degreeshow.mmu.ac.uk/2022/
 https://www.art.mmu.ac.uk/events/ 
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/special-collections-museum/whats-on
https://www.holdengallery.mmu.ac.uk/exhibitions/ 
MMU + culture
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/study/why-manchester-met/city/art-and-culture
Promoting Manchester’s cultural assets to prospective students, none of the top four listed attractions are MMU galleries or facilities. Holden Gallery and Poetry Library (well below the fold) pulled out as case studies – but so is National Football Museum.
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/engagement/schools-and-colleges/arts-and-culture/ - lists venues, includes link to Working With Us, which is activities for schools
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/about-us/structure - listing of faculties and departments 
MMU + creative industries
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/industry-4.0/ - ie. not about creative industries at all
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/study/apprenticeships/courses/creative-digital-design
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/study/undergraduate/course/ba-creative-writing/ MMU + research
https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research has three sub-pages:
REF  2021(https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/our-impact/research-excellence-framework)
Headline results (buried “below the fold”) include, “We have four subjects in the top 10 for research power — Art and Design, Education, English and Sport.”
“Unit of assessment highlights” – below this – leads with, “In Art and Design, we are second in the UK for the power of our research.”
Our research impact (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/our-impact)
Creative Economy case studies (again, well below the fold) include “Engaging new audiences through poetry”, “Listening the to refugee experience” and “Haunt Manchester”, which focuses on Gothic studies. Arguably not about creative economy at all!
Research Centres (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/research-centres)
History (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/research-centres/history)
Creative Writing, English Literature and Linguistics (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/research-centres/cell)
School of Art Research Centre (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/research-centres/msarc) Two sub-pages:
Research Hubs: (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/research-centres/msarc/hubs)
Architecture (https://www.msa.ac.uk/research/ - navigates away from main Man Met web site)
Art & Performance (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/research-centres/msarc/hubs/art-and-performance)
Design (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/research-centres/msarc/hubs/design)
Fashion (https://fashioninstitute.mmu.ac.uk/research-and-knowledge-exchange/ - navigates away from main Man Met web site)
SODA  (https://www.schoolofdigitalarts.mmu.ac.uk/research-at-soda/)
There is no design or structural consistency between the sites, nor any attempt to cross-reference or link back to any other research area.
Research Projects (https://www.mmu.ac.uk/research/research-centres/msarc/projects): 20 projects, including Design Action Plan, “promoting strategic design as a driver of innovation and improvement in all sectors and industries across the UK”; no link back to Research Hubs at top level.