Create Growth Programme, Expansion - Full Application Form


Please read the guidance for applicants document in full before completing the application.



Eligibility: 
 Only full applications from shortlisted applicants invited to apply by DCMS will be assessed. If you are invited to submit a full application, this is not a guarantee that the application will be successful. 

Please confirm the following:

That you have been invited by DCMS as a shortlisted applicant to submit a full application to the Create Growth Programme.

     x Yes         ☐ No


Local Area Partnership Details





Proposal




Authorisation


I declare that I have the authority to represent [insert name of organisation] in making this application. 

I understand that acceptance of this application does not in any way signify that it is eligible for Create Growth Programme funding or that funding has been approved towards it.

On behalf of [insert name of organisation], I confirm that:
[insert name of organisation] has the legal authority to carry out the project; and
The information provided in this application is accurate.


Signature:	…………………………………………		Date: ……………………………..




Name:		…………………………………………


Role:		…………………………………………


Completed applications should be returned to the Creative Economy team at DCMS via the following email: creategrowth@dcms.gov.uk, and patrick.nixon@dcms.gov.uk 

Please note: 
The deadline for full applications is 23:59 hrs BST, Tuesday 19 September 2023;
All applications received by the closing date will be assessed following the closing date;
Any applications received after the closing date will not be assessed;
All information and guidance relating to this round of funding can be found on the ‘Applying to the Create Growth Programme’ on gov.uk;
As the application process is competitive, DCMS is not able to respond to requests for support in completing the application.

[TABLE 1]
Lead organisation: [enter name of lead organisation making this application]


Consortium members (this relates only to consortium applications): [enter names of each consortium member]
[/TABLE]


[TABLE 2]
2.1 Lead Organisation name: | Solent LEP
2.2 Lead Organisation address: | Civic Offices, Guildhall Walk, Portsmouth
2.3 Lead Organisation postcode: | PO1 2AL
2.4 Main contact name: | James Ford
2.5 Main contact job title: | Head of Enterprise and Skills
2.6 Main contact email: | James.ford@solentlep.org.uk
2.7 Main contact phone number(s): | 02392 688023
2.8 Consortium members - details of all organisations which are members of the consortium: (if applicable, i.e. only list partners in this section if applying as a consortium). | 
[/TABLE]


[TABLE 3]
2.9   Since 01/04/2017, has your organisation been in receipt of other grant funding from DCMS? If so, please give details of what this is for, the time period it covers and the team you liaised with. In the case of a consortium bid, this applies to both lead organisations and consortium members. As part of our due diligence checks, we may request feedback from other DCMS teams. 

Failure to provide this information may delay / affect your application. | 2.9   Since 01/04/2017, has your organisation been in receipt of other grant funding from DCMS? If so, please give details of what this is for, the time period it covers and the team you liaised with. In the case of a consortium bid, this applies to both lead organisations and consortium members. As part of our due diligence checks, we may request feedback from other DCMS teams. 

Failure to provide this information may delay / affect your application. | 2.9   Since 01/04/2017, has your organisation been in receipt of other grant funding from DCMS? If so, please give details of what this is for, the time period it covers and the team you liaised with. In the case of a consortium bid, this applies to both lead organisations and consortium members. As part of our due diligence checks, we may request feedback from other DCMS teams. 

Failure to provide this information may delay / affect your application. | 2.9   Since 01/04/2017, has your organisation been in receipt of other grant funding from DCMS? If so, please give details of what this is for, the time period it covers and the team you liaised with. In the case of a consortium bid, this applies to both lead organisations and consortium members. As part of our due diligence checks, we may request feedback from other DCMS teams. 

Failure to provide this information may delay / affect your application. | 2.9   Since 01/04/2017, has your organisation been in receipt of other grant funding from DCMS? If so, please give details of what this is for, the time period it covers and the team you liaised with. In the case of a consortium bid, this applies to both lead organisations and consortium members. As part of our due diligence checks, we may request feedback from other DCMS teams. 

Failure to provide this information may delay / affect your application.
Organisation(s) receiving funding | DCMS Funding Source | Details | Period | DCMS Team you liaised with
Solent LEP | Digital Skills Partnership | £60,000 via South East LEP to lead on a Digital Skills Partnership for Catalyst South – Six LEP`s across the South East of England. | Jan23- Dec23 | Strategy, Engagement and operations – Digital and Tech Policy
[/TABLE]


[TABLE 4]
3.1 Characteristics of place: Local creative businesses and infrastructure:
Local area partnerships should demonstrate that they have a large enough cluster (or group of clusters) of creative businesses with suitable growth prospects to enable meaningful engagement with and impact from the programme and there is sufficient local infrastructure to support businesses beyond the programme. Please provide details on the following using available evidence and research to support your response:
Describe the creative sector in the region, including the number of creative businesses and the creative sub-sectors covered by these businesses. For information on the sub-sectors covered under the Creative Industries please refer to those listed in the DCMS Sectors Economic Estimates. Please specify what data and sources you have used to inform your response.
How many creative businesses in the region do you estimate engaging as part of the programme? Which creative sub-sectors are covered by these businesses? Please specify what data and sources you have used to inform this estimate.
How do these businesses meet the description of ‘high-growth potential’? Please specify what sources you have used to inform this.
Which existing or future regional support offers (both Creative Industries-specific and sector agnostic) are present in the region that businesses could be referred to or could provide feeder or follow-on support? How could these be aligned to support the Create Growth Programme? This could include but is not limited to growth hubs, innovation accelerators and regional business support or funding programmes.
What existing or potential investor communities and networks are active in the region that could be engaged as part of the programme (e.g. Angel networks, Regional funds)? If there are no existing or easily identifiable investor networks in the region, what broader national and international investor networks exist that creative businesses in the region could be connected with?
[/TABLE]


[TABLE 5]
Creative Industries in the Solent area
Companies House data, collated via Beauhurst in September 2023, on SIC codes for all DCMS creative sectors other than Crafts and Museums, Galleries and Libraries, shows 4,510 active businesses with registered offices in the Solent LEP area. That represents 10.7% of the Solent’s base of 42,000 businesses, and is 33% higher than the estimates contained in the most recent IDBR data (2022) available via Nomisweb. The discrepancies are particularly large in the following sectors:

Film, television, video, radio and photography: 370 (89%) more active registered businesses recorded in Beauhurst than shown in IDBR
Music, performing and visual arts: 255 more businesses (84%)
Advertising and marketing: 225 more businesses (69%)



Figure 1: Change in CI business count in Solent LEP area by DCMS subsector, 2015-2023
(The Fifth Sector, September 2023.)

IDBR shows an increase in business numbers in all sectors other than IT, software development and computer consultancy. In fact, the variation in IT is down entirely to fluctuation in the number of computer consultancy businesses (SIC code 62020), which went from 1,310 in 2015 to 1,580 in 2020 before declining rapidly to 1,185 in 2022. Over the same period, there was a small increase in the number of games developers and publishers (from 25 to 40) and software developers (from 435 to 455). We reflect on the impact of these changes in business numbers on creative employment in the Solent region below.

Beauhurst provides a clearer indication of the trend of creative business numbers in the Solent Region. The rate of net change in active CI businesses in the Solent has accelerated considerably since Q4 2021. Consultation with local workspace providers confirms that this reflects a trend toward home-based and hybrid working, in part the result of business owners relocating previously London-based companies closer to home. One example of this can be found in the Incuhive business workspace in Brockenhurst (New Forest), which was fully occupied within two weeks of opening in September 2021, with six out of 21 tenants having relocated from London.
Some of the discrepancies in business counts between Beauhurst and IDBR can be accounted for by different methodologies – but as Figure 2 suggests, it also reflects an increase in the rate of new CI business formations in the Solent area since Q4 2021.

Figure 2: Net change in active CI companies in Solent LEP area, Q3 2013 – Q2 2023


(The Fifth Sector analysis of Companies House data via Beauhurst, September 2023.)
CI companies by location and DCMS sub-sector
We carried out geographical analysis of active registered CI businesses to establish their distribution across the Solent region. The results are shown in Figure 3:
Figure 3: breakdown of Solent CI businesses by location



(The Fifth Sector analysis of Companies House data via Beauhurst, September 2023.)

Discounting the significant presence of computer consultancy businesses (IC code 62020) included in the IT, software and computer services sector, the largest creative subsectors emerge as:
Film, television, video, radio and photography
Music, performing and visual arts
Software development (SIC codes 58290 and 62012)
Advertising and marketing
Clustering
The Southampton TTWA was identified as one of 47 UK Creative Industries Clusters in Nesta’s 2016 report, The Geography of Creativity in the UK, and is among the top 20 UK cities with the greatest proportion of its creative businesses in microclusters (67% of CI businesses in 7 microclusters), ahead of Brighton, in the Policy Evidence Centre (PEC)’s 2020 Creative Radar report. 
Further analysis carried out on behalf of Creative Network South provided more detail on clustering of CI businesses across the Solent area and confirmed that more than half of all creative businesses in Southampton, Portsmouth, Isle of Wight, Fareham and Eastleigh are concentrated within microclusters, each of more than 50 businesses. 
Figure 4: CI clusters within local authorities across the Solent area



(The Fifth Sector analysis of BOP Consulting data, 2021.)

Whilst the Solent area demonstrates specialisms in software development, marketing, publishing, arts and design, and fast emerging strengths in AR, VR, sound design, film and television production, our analysis suggests that each microcluster contains a range of CI sub-sectors; there is no place-based, single sector cluster of significance within the Solent area. This is in part attributable to the lack of significant commissioning bodies (e.g., national broadcasters or large computer games publishers) within the Solent region around which other SMEs can agglomerate. 
These findings have influenced our approach to defining the target markets and delivery mechanism for Create Growth support, detailed in section 3.2 below.
Trends in creative industries employment
Analysis carried out by Lightcast identifies 40,000 jobs in creative and digital industries generating £1.5bn GVA. 50% of CI jobs support other regional strengths such as maritime, nuclear, space and life sciences. There are an estimated 16,000 students studying creative subject at institutions in the Solent.
However, the lack of scale within individual creative businesses, which typically employ fewer than five people, presents a barrier to growth.   
Research carried out by Oxford Economics  as part of the development of the Solent 2050 strategy identified Information and communications and Arts entertainment and recreation as two of the sectors likely to generate the fastest growth in employment in the Solent, creating 5,000 new jobs by 2030. 
Analysis of employment statistics for creative industries reveal the impact of the COVID epidemic and highlight the risk of losing employment in publishing and IT to larger companies in neighbouring regions. This contributes to an overall volatility in employment within the creative industries, which relates to the findings from consultation with creative employers about the difficulty in attracting and retaining talent.
 Figure 5: Trends in creative industries employment in the Solent, 2015-2021



(The Fifth Sector analysis of Business Register & Employment Survey, via Nomisweb.)
Market assessment of demand for CGP in the Solent
Company age/number of employees
We carried out more detailed analysis of the CI business population to ascertain a more accurate estimate of the potentially addressable market for CGP in the Solent area – i.e., how many businesses could potentially meet both thresholds of three years’ growth and a minimum of two employees. The result is shown in Figure 6. As not all businesses report employment as part of their annual return, and we do not have accurate measures of freelance and contract working, these figures serve mainly to provide assurance that there is a potentially large enough community of CI businesses within the Solent – around 1,200 - from which to draw 40-50 companies to go through the programme.

Figure 6: Analysis of potentially addressable market size for Solent CGP



(The Fifth Sector analysis of Companies House data, via Beauhurst, September 2023.)

As part of this analysis, we looked at individual sub-sectors of computer games (SIC codes 58210 and 62011), software development (58290 and 62012) and sound recording and music publishing (59200) to ascertain whether there was potential to focus on a single vertical sub-sector within any of the CGP cohorts. 
We have used this evidence to model how many companies will be engaged through the Solent CGP at each stage of activity. Through this process we will engage with a much larger cohort of creative businesses who will be signposted and supported through Solent Partners’ network of investment, business and skills development support that is strengthened as part of this process. We anticipate that the Solent CGP will provide 45-50 businesses with access to an opportunity to apply or pitch for external finance. The stages of that engagement are shown below:










Figure 7: Solent CGP engagement model



In preparation of this bid, Solent CGP appointed The Fifth Sector, a creative sector specialist consultancy, to conduct Market Awareness research based on consultation with businesses, universities, sector networks, local authorities, Hampshire Chamber of Commerce and representatives from industry and education engaged in the skills ‘Deep Dive’ as part of LSIP. The findings were used to qualify the findings of desk-based research (summarised at Figure 6) which produced an estimate that there were around 1,200 creative businesses across the Solent likely to be eligible to benefit from an investment journey via CGP.
High growth potential was assessed as:
Active business registered at Companies House with its activities falling under one or more of 38 SIC codes included within the DCMS definition of Creative Industries (excluding Crafts, Museums, Libraries and Galleries) 
Evidence of at least three years’ trading history
Evidence of growth in turnover/profit in three of the last four years (allowing for interruption by the pandemic, reflecting the ambition that Solent CGP will support a significant cohort of Creative Production companies)
Evidence that the business had at least two employees (estimates derived from Beauhurst data – this may underestimate the number of businesses with a sole director working mainly with freelance staff)
Solent Growth Hub 
Solent LEP delivers the Growth Hub, which provides a single point of access to a variety of funding and support options for businesses in the Solent area. This work is underpinned by the Solent Economic Recovery Plan. Set up to tackle the economic shock of Covid-19, it’s a long-term action plan that aims to help local businesses get back on their feet and build resilience through a three-stage approach: survival, stability and growth. Growth Hub services include:
Funding Hub, which has delivered a £5.3m ERDF programme of funding for Enhancing SMEs and helps businesses to identify funding options available via Grantfinder.
Growth Hub Business Support, which offers business advisory support and supports CREATE Solent, the first regional collective from CREATE Britain, which encourages creative SMEs and freelances to create their own online profile and  build a network to collaborate and address challenges, retain talent and champion creatives in the Solent area.
Green & Sustainable Business Hub helps SMEs make changes to move towards Net Zero.
International Trade Hub provides information, advice and guidance for businesses looking to trade and recruit internationally
Solent LEP led on the Catalyst South Digital Skills Partnership, whose findings have informed prioritisation of Creative Industries and creative skills pathways within planning and investment for skills support in the Solent.
Solent Careers Hub
Evidence from the DCMS-funded Digital Skills Partnership, led by Solent LEP, has been combined with findings from Local Skills Improvement Plan to inform the development of a Local Skills Improvement Fund (LSIF) bid for FE providers in the Solent. LSIF funding will support the development of a future talent pipeline for the creative industries, providing investment in:
Havant and South Downs College – will increase its offer at Levels 3 & Levels 4 in the Production Arts. This will allow growth from existing Level 3 & 4 in Performing Arts across three distinct areas which are set design and construction, light and sound technic. The College currently have 105 students studying Performing Arts and 104 studying Music – as a result of the LSIF investment it is projected that these will increase to 144 & 129 in 24/25.
Brockenhurst College – currently offers Level 3 courses in Production Arts, Music Technology, Digital Music Production, Dance and Drama at Level 3 and Performing Arts at Level 2. The investment made at the College will enhance all current courses through the development of industry specific embedded modules and futureproof its long-term curriculum.

Isle of Wight College –The College will focus on developing a Level 3 and Level 4 curriculum offer that is focused on stage design and management. To ensure that this provision is both efficient and comprehensive it will be delivered in part with other sector areas for example construction, media and engineering. The aim of this new provision will be to develop future stage managers, lighting technicians, sound technicians and directors. 

Itchen College (sixth form) - Increase and enhancement of the current qualifications in Dance and Musical Theatre Level 3, Music Performance and Production Level 3 that will inspire and engage students to progress into careers in digital production through the development of industry relevant and co-design career modules. Students will access new resources and technologies linked to the world of work that will develop their subject skills and interests. Approx. 100 students taking Acting, Musical Theatre, and Music.

Lighthouse Learning Trust – Creating state of the art Media, Broadcast and Production hubs at Richard Taunton College and St Vincent College, with a centralised performance space for collaborative productions based at Richard Taunton College to complement the growing curriculum offering in this area. Current curriculum offering of Music Performance at Levels 2 & 3 and a T Level Creative starting 2024.
Hampshire Chamber of Commerce 
Hampshire Chamber of Commerce hosts Creative Network South (CNS), an advocacy organisation which acts as a ‘network of networks’ for creative organisations and works to promote the Development of the Creative Economy in Hampshire. CNS’s priorities are the attraction and retention of creative talent. Its members include Businesses, Higher and Further Education Institutions and Local Authorities, and Sector Support Agencies. It acts as an observatory for the creative industries, carrying out research and engaging with partners across and outside the region in the development of proposals to enhance creative infrastructure and investment, including through development of pan-regional ‘superclusters’ (e.g., collaborating with Surrey partners in development of a CreaTech supercluster) and international trade and knowledge exchange relationships. It provides referrals to generic and sector-specific investment, business and skills development support for creative SMEs.
Local authorities
The three unitary authorities (Isle of Wight, Portsmouth and Southampton) and the five district authorities (New Forest, Eastleigh, Fareham, Gosport and Havant) each offer business support and inward investment activity.
Sector-led creative networks
Solent already boasts several important sector-led networks. However, many of them operate with little or no direct connection to or awareness of sector investors or investment networks – not an uncommon outcome in cultural and creative networks which derive their initial support and membership from a mixed economy of freelance artists and early stage microbusinesses. These networks include: 
Creative UK has over 20 years of corporate history supporting the UK’s creative industries. It has built a network of specialists with whom it consults monthly and UK-wide unique intimate knowledge of its creative industries.  
Creative UK is a Not-for-Profit partner to the Creative Industries, committed to enabling ongoing business growth and investment support for creative businesses across the UK. 
To support this ambition, Creative UK brings a number of USPs to the partnership, and creative sector experts to build capacity and embed legacy within the Solent region. Its ambition is to realise creative clusters across the country, resulting in talent retention, inward investment and ensuring that cultural and creative industries thrive and are sustainable.
Firstly, Creative UK manages a range of public and private sector-specific investment funds, including its flagship £30m+ Creative Growth Finance venture debt fund – the UK’s only Creative Industries specific private investment fund, managed on behalf of an investment banking partner. Management of the funds comprises an investment committee of leading investors with an interest in the sector from across the investment banking, Angel and VC landscape. This capacity has enabled Creative UK to build a nationwide network of investors, taking them on a journey of de-risking the sector and opening the channels of investment into the Creative Industries. We connect creative and cultural businesses to the money, markets and networks that help them to thrive.  
Creative UK operates a UK-wide membership model (through its former ‘Creative Industries Federation’ business), which enables creative businesses to continue accessing resources, sector expert content, access to markets, routes to finance, networks and additional growth support. Providing Creative businesses with ongoing support and networking. Through Creative UK membership, creative businesses in the region will be regularly updated on additional support initiatives which will come online during the programme lifecycle and beyond, giving them a direct route into additional support.
Creative UK is currently delivering three of the existing regional Create Growth Programmes. This knowledge and experience will bring cutting edge insight and mentoring support to emerging Creative sector businesses as they embark on and progress through their growth journey.
Isle of Wight Creative Network provides training and bursaries for artists and SMEs to develop their creative practice. Its network includes some of the island’s most significant creative production and design businesses, including Ventnor Exchange, an ACE National Portfolio Organisation which combines  a venue, cocktail and craft beer bar, record shop and coworking as well as producing festivals, and design agency Nosy.
Portsmouth Creates provides opportunities for creative and cultural sector to platform work and develop skills. They work with and in communities, co-creating across Portsmouth to animate spaces and collaborate with city stakeholders to put Portsmouth on the map, to put on successful events and networking conferences throughout the year.
Southampton Forward, a newly created independent charity with a remit across Tourism, Culture, Festivals and Events, putting cultural regeneration at the heart of the city. Southampton's shortlisted bid to be UK City of Culture in 2025 included several strands of capacity building for the city's creative sector which will be continued by Southampton Forward. It will build on sector specific work undertaken in music and visual arts and increase the city's regional, national and international connections. Southampton Forward will drive delivery of Southampton's Cultural Strategy, Festival and Events Strategy and Destination Management Plan. 
Film:NewForest offers location and production support to investors in film and television.
Gosport Cultural Strategy sets out four aims to support the creative industries, delivered by its Arts Council-sponsored Cultural Compact:
a)  Make creative careers more viable in Gosport 
b)  Encourage new creative businesses to grow 
c)  Enable innovation through conversations and collaborations 
d)  Help cultural and creative businesses adapt to changing times 
Investor networks 
South East Angels are on a mission to build the most effective, engaged and valuable community for angel investors in the South East of England working with the Solent LEP Growth hub to create opportunities and raise awareness.
Barclays Eagle Labs has sites in both Portsmouth and Southampton, offering specialist investment support for creative businesses. Incuhive, a private sector operator, has provided considerable impetus to the growth of creative and digital microclusters with a network of sites in market towns and villages (e.g., Brockenhurst, in the New Forest).
Entrepreneurial support from the private sector, working with local authorities and universities to engage existing networks of angel investors. Other sources of specialist support include ZedAlpha, a spinout from Incuhive, a collective of experienced senior executives who work alongside founders on time-limited projects to help them grow specialised areas of their business (including finance, sales and marketing and HR) whilst allowing the founder to focus on their product-market fit.
International Trade relationships
Portsmouth Bangladesh Business Association has delivered trade missions, with the support of Solent LEP, to Bangladesh. 
Other bilateral relationships exist with Halifax (Canada), Turku (Finland) and Duisburg (Germany). 
Universities
University of Portsmouth delivers Help to Grow: Management, a Department for Education-funded three month short course in management for SME leaders, and a potential source of cross-referrals for CGP. It is also home to the Centre for Creative and Immersive Extended Reality (CCIXR) the UK`s first integrated facility supporting innovation in the Creative and digital sectors.
Solent University has funded 378 businesses started by graduates from a range of creative undergraduate and Master’s courses since 2012. These businesses, and other individuals looking to pursue freelance opportunities in the creative industries, are supported for up to three years after graduation by a networking organisation – Solent Creates. This evidence provides a useful source of information about businesses which are potentially eligible for CGP. A £1m virtual production studio will open in September 2023, offering both capacity and potential collaborative R&D support for Solent-based creative SMEs.
University of Southampton’s Web Science Institute is at the forefront of research into future media, with leading web scientist Professor Dame Wendy Hall, known internationally for her development in web science and recognised across the world for her pioneering role as one of the first computer scientists to embark on serious research into multi- and hyper-media technologies before the existence of the World Wide Web. Music is a real strength and has a focus of embedding new technologies within the sector. Future Worlds is the start-up accelerator at the University of Southampton. Since 2015, the University has supported hundreds of students and researchers to explore their start-up ideas, leading to successful launches backed by over 40 million pounds of investment. The Future Worlds Cohort includes an acceleration trip to the San Francisco Bay Area, plugging Southampton founders directly into the most important start-up ecosystem in the world. The University’s Department of Music is third-ranked in the UK and is at the hub of much of Southampton’s musical life, staging an array of public events at Turner Sims, The Brook and other venues across the city. These include lunchtime concerts and special performance projects that showcase student performers and professional artists and the annual, student-organised Share the Sound Festival for new and unsigned artists. The University also works with local creative network CHAOS.
Solent Freeport  was one of the first Freeports to be announced in December 2022. Income from retention of business rates from three tax-free sites at Southampton Water, Navigator Quarter and Dunsbury Park – an estimated £400-500m per annum – will be reinvested into the local economy and provides a potential source of investment capital for creative businesses in the Solent area. A customs site operator called Portico based at Portsmouth International Port also provides tariff-free movement of goods for both import and export.   
Barclays Eagle Labs has sites in both Portsmouth and Southampton and will support innovative, creative, digital and knowledge-based start-ups and scale-ups by delivering the city’s first collaborative, co-working environment. Network offers access to great resources and support including a photographic studio and podcast equipment. Eagle Labs has a network of circa 300 private VC`s that can be accessed. 

Venture Fest South, an annual festival of innovation to stimulate the Solent`s innovation ecosystem, bringing key partners and influencers to showcase the Solent`s talent, innovative businesses, research capabilities, entrepreneurs and investors. Last year’s event had over £10m of funding opportunities from regional stakeholders such as Solent LEP, Innovate UK, KTN, Catax, BAE and DSTL (defence and security accelerator). 

Solent LEP has invested over £182m of local growth deal funding to date. In November 2023 they will launch a new £700k grant fund and £5m loan fund to support high growth businesses. The Solent cultural strategy, co-commissioned with ACE and expected to deliver by end 2023, will identify new investor opportunities.

UKSPF: the Solent`s eight local authorities were awarded £16m to 2025. Funding is being made available for business support to include grant programmes such as Gosport`s Digital grant support programme.
3.2 Programme need
Local area partnerships should demonstrate that there is unmet demand for the programme and that it will build on and not duplicate existing activity in the region. Please provide details on the following using available evidence and research to support your response:
Describe the need for the programme in the region. Please explain how creative businesses are currently under-served by support offers and how the CGP package of business support, investor capacity building and finance support will specifically support their growth needs. 
Please confirm that the programme does not duplicate other existing support offers in the region. Where there are similar programmes being delivered, such as business support for creative businesses, please explain how the Create Growth Programme will provide additional benefits to businesses and the investor community.
Addressing barriers to the growth of creative businesses in the Solent
Unpublished research carried out by the PEC suggests that there is a lasting impact of the COVID pandemic on the behaviour of creative businesses which is not yet reflected in national statistics:
Although business survival rates are very good - the failure rate amongst businesses interviewed as part of the research for Creative Radar in 2019 is only 4.5% - companies in microclusters are scaling back their ambitions.
Extensive consultation with businesses, universities and creative sector networks and support agencies across the Solent identified some consistent messages about the barriers to growth faced by creative businesses. These included:
Access to markets
Access to finance
Attraction and retention of creative skills and talent
Lack of management capability
Access to markets 
Information asymmetries between the Solent and other regions, particularly in relation to commissioning opportunities, have limited the opportunities for creative entrepreneurs to build growth businesses whose value resides in their original IP.
Access to finance
Whilst the Solent benefits from engaged private investor networks, including the Solent Cluster, a subsidiary of the LEP, led by a partnership of University of Southampton and Exxon Mobil, which promotes investment in decarbonisation across the Solent economy.
Attraction and retention of creative skills and talent
Market engagement undertaken as part of the development of the CGP bid revealed a consensus that retention and attraction of talent is a significant barrier to sustainability and growth for Solent CI companies. The ‘brain drain’ exerted on the local talent pool by opportunities in London (and Bournemouth and Bristol) is reflected in research which shows an almost linear correlation between distance from London and the concentration of creative enterprises, measured by ‘Location Quotient’ (LQ) of creative businesses, with the notable exception of New Forest, which reflects the highest count of creative businesses in the county. 


Figure 7: Concentration of Creative Industries businesses across Hampshire, 2021




(Source: Creative Network South, 2021.)

Research and ‘Deep Dive’ engagement with employers conducted as part of the development of Local Skills Improvement Plan (LSIP) and Local Skills Investment Fund (LSIF) bid for Solent provide strong evidence of need and demand for a set of creative and tech skills which exist not only within creative industries but across the wider economy. Creative Industries are a priority sector. Creative skills identified as being in highest demand across the Solent, both in CI and adjacent priority sectors including tech, maritime and aerospace, include: 

Graphic design
Digital marketing
Architectural technology
3D modeller
Animator
Camera operator
Lighting technician/designer
Sound tech
CGI/SFX artist
Television, live event production and film editor

The LSIF bid commits FE institutions across Solent area to coordinated delivery of creative skills across academic, technical and apprenticeship pathways within each of the highlighted skills areas. This presents opportunities to work with employers grow their understanding of how they can reduce their reliance on graduate entry and make increasing use of technical qualifications and apprenticeships (including those at levels 4 and 5) which can be realised in a much shorter time than ‘traditional’ graduate entry routes, to address their workforce needs in the short to medium term. 

Research carried out by the Southern Policy Centre argues for coordinated action from CI businesses, local stakeholders to create a Solent Film Office to capitalise on opportunities in film and television production, attracting new inward investment and driving business and employment growth across the Solent region. The evidence of need in this study is more widely reflected across the Solent’s creative production sectors, including those for live events and festivals:

Promoting opportunities for SMEs and freelancers. The majority of those working in the sector either do so on a freelance basis or are employed by small, specialist technical businesses. A thriving film industry will help grow high value, specialist businesses, thus supporting key sectors such as digital and tech. We should not lose sight of the number of support trades and services needed [in film and television production]. Skills honed by working in film will have a wider application across other areas.

Developing and retaining local skills and talent. Solent’s regional universities produce high numbers of graduates in creative and digital disciplines, complemented by a strong offer in these areas from local FE Colleges. It would benefit the region if these skilled individuals could have the opportunity to grow their careers in the local economy post-graduation – too often they are forced to move to London or areas such as the Thames Valley to work in their chosen field. Importantly, there are opportunities to ‘level up’ by offering opportunities to those with non-traditional educational backgrounds, or who have struggled with formal learning; indeed, local VCS organisations are already promoting such initiatives. 

Opportunities to attract investment. Film adds value to the local economy in both direct and indirect forms. 
Direct: through investment in businesses and facilities: e.g., the Thames Valley has seen major investment in studios and other facilities by multi-national media companies. 
Indirect: Benefits may also be indirect such as encouraging tourism: for example, the impact of Poldark on visitor numbers in Cornwall or Game of Thrones in Northern Ireland. A thriving film industry helps promote tourism and inward investment.
Lack of management capability
Founders of early stage creative businesses are faced with capacity and capability issues in addressing both leadership (vision, future-focused, galvanising, networking) and management (bringing strategic capabilities together with focus), particularly in context of unfamiliar elements of planning for growth and seeking external investment for the first time. Whilst there are no studies which demonstrate shortcomings in management capability amongst Solent’s creative businesses, there are several indicators which combine to suggest that CGP will need to address management capability alongside awareness of and access to investment:
Small average size of creative businesses (fewer than five employees is the norm)
Propensity for freelance work amongst a mobile creative workforce looking to take advantage of contracting opportunities from London, Bournemouth and Bristol as well as those in the Solent region 
Lack of take up of existing management development programmes, such as Help to Grow, amongst creative business leaders
Access to affordable workspace
Additional considerations include the conditions of place i.e., affordable/ sustainable housing, transport infrastructure, and creative infrastructure. Pressure on commercial property prices, fuelled by competition from other priority sectors, can threaten creative businesses with displacement and provide a further disincentive to taking on external investment. Places across the Solent are looking to address the supply of workspace; Southampton is exploring long term spaces for the creative industries as part of its masterplanning.
Summary of needs
Through consultation, we identified a consistent, but not universal, view expressed by businesses, creative networks and stakeholders that the Solent CGP needs to go with the grain of existing industry structures and networks across the Solent rather than trying to contort the data and evidence to make an argument for single sector verticals and networks which (a) aren’t identified by the businesses themselves as an opportunity for growth and (b) even if we were to identify them, would still lack scale compared to those in neighbouring and competitor regions. 
That reflects the structural factors which affect Solent’s competitiveness, particularly the ‘brain drain’ to London and the absence of large sector commissioners within the region. The difficulty of attracting and retaining talent is arguably the single largest barrier to growth of creative businesses in the region; otherwise, founders report that they feel that Solent is a good place to express creativity and that they enjoy the cross disciplinary nature of both sector networks and client relationships here. 
On the basis of this evidence and extensive consultation with CI businesses, universities, local authorities, sector networks and workspace providers, we determined that the most effective approach for the Solent would be to address 40-45 companies in three cohorts each of up to 15 businesses, focused on:
Creative design services, including graphic design, advertising, marketing, SEO and content creation, with a focus on building strong peer networks of businesses capable of addressing demand from and collaborating in the development of innovative new products with corporate sector clients (including those in key sectors of maritime, space, aerospace and net zero), scaled in the tens of employees rather than in single digits.
Creative production, which encompasses the whole supply chain for live events and festivals, film, television and video production and provides greater opportunity for collaborative R&D, market development and talent development and retention than breaking this artificially into live events, music and film/TV. Those disciplines co-exist within single productions and individual firms within such a cohort could draw additional strength from increased awareness of capability and capacity in other firms across Solent, and from the potential to spark collaborative work which would allow them to address larger, national and international opportunities. (That would have the additional benefit of potentially ironing out some of the seasonal demand factors which are a barrier to both attraction and retention of talent and allowing us to present this to potential employees, students, schools, colleges and universities as a viable professional career pathway 365 days of the year, highlighting employment opportunities to those in the live events and festivals freelance workforce whose skills are transferable to screen media and live music). This presents obvious indirect benefits to growth of the visitor economy.
Createch, which complements both of these, and builds on regional strengths in AR/VR/XR, games, postproduction and special effects, data science and AI in developing innovative original IP for live events, museums/libraries/galleries, film/VFX, virtual production and games. Applications range from projection mapping for live events and festivals to developing highly specialist software (e.g., digital twins, navigational and logistics aids) for clients in other high value priority sectors such as maritime, aerospace and logistics.
Why have we determined this series of ‘horizontal’ value chains rather than sector verticals?
Addressing structural issues in Solent’s creative economy
None of the existing single sector networks have sufficient scale or reach to be a convincing platform for development of growth businesses at this point, particularly in view of the lack of commissioning infrastructure; although there is an argument that those developments, and strategic focus on supporting sector-specific inward investment through support for a Solent Film Office, could form part of the legacy.
Building on strengths in the visitor economy
Within the Creative Production cohort, Events and Festivals represents a specific opportunity and its links to the Solent's visitor economy: 
Southampton is the 18th most popular destination for UK visitors, continuing investment in cultural programming as part of legacy of City of Culture bid
Portsmouth's distinctive naval heritage
Isle of Wight Festival and programme of smaller festivals throughout the year supports a cluster of creative production businesses with potential to extend their markets nationally and internationally. IW Creative Network already has a focus on a wider range of production skills and connections to local food producers. 
Creative Tech cohort will expand capabilities in respect of immersive exhibits for museums and galleries, projection mapping for lighting of external events 
Links to University of Southampton work in Digital Humanities.
Increasing take up of creative digital technologies
Identifying the opportunity to increase take up of creative digital technologies across the sector, including 
Parallel promotion of CGP with Digital Skills Bootcamps delivered through the Solent Growth Hub. These activities will be threaded together to ensure local creative businesses accelerate the adoption of creative digital technologies.
Emphasising the innovation and supply chain opportunities arising from closer integration of creative networks and Net Zero businesses within the Solent Cluster, already well established within software development but with potential to become a centre of excellence for a range of related technologies, for example, in development of digital twins to assist in the development and management of Net Zero infrastructure and navigational systems.
Driving attraction and retention of creative talent
There is opportunity here for local university start up programmes which target creative graduates, like Solent Creatives, to work more closely with employers to highlight employment opportunities which, where they are not addressed, result in skills gaps and shortages. Existing graduate engagement programmes are part of a pathway through which we can identify those graduates with aspirations to build a business – but in many cases those graduates will benefit more from the experience of working within a more established company with growth ambitions than seeking freelance employment. Stakeholder engagement around the CGP bid has already helped focus the universities’ attention on the potential for investment of resource and money further up the value chain, in knowledge exchange, collaborative R&D and the development of management and leadership skills for founders and directors of more established creative businesses with realisable growth potential.
Additional benefits to businesses and investors
Venture Fest South, as an established public-private partnership and a brand recognised by industry, could be used as a vehicle to target investor development; and to present potential investors with a broader portfolio than any single sector network.
Sustained investment around Net Zero has created a set of ‘adjacent’ investor ecosystems which can be extended to creative sectors.
Solent CGP aims to leverage the funds for businesses available through the Innovate UK investor development programme to raise awareness of existing business investment, angel and VC networks active in the Solent (especially around maritime, aerospace, advanced manufacturing, Net Zero) of opportunities in (in particular) creative digital technologies.
3.3 Local organisational capacity
Each successful local area partnership will be awarded approximately £520,000 in grant funding to set up creative business support activities in FY23/24 and deliver this support to creative businesses in FY24/25. It is expected that participation in the CGP will help to build local knowledge, capacity and infrastructure to support creative businesses beyond the programme. 

Creative businesses in participating local area partnerships will also have the opportunity to access part of a finance growth support fund totalling £9 million in FY2024/25. Innovate UK is delivering finance in the current programme as well as running an investor capacity building programme that will work with investors and help drive investment into participating regions. Local area partnerships and Innovate UK work closely together to ensure the programme meets its objectives and outcomes.

DCMS works with the national delivery partner and local area partnerships to deliver monthly Programme Boards and quarterly Steering Boards to monitor the programme’s progress against its objectives. It is intended that the successful local area partnerships will collaborate closely with DCMS, the national delivery partner and programme evaluators to ensure the programme meets its intended objectives.   

Local area partnerships should demonstrate that they have the capacity, skills and resources to deliver the business support programme, as well as sufficient understanding of, and partnerships with, creative businesses and networks in their region. 

Applicants should demonstrate their ability to deliver at pace in particular. Experience from the first wave of the programme shows that coordination and delivery to tight timetables can be challenging, particularly where there is more than one delivery partner in a consortium.

Please provide a project plan of how you will deliver the business support package which addresses the following: 
If a consortium bid, please provide details around contribution and direction of all consortium members to the project; 
How you will overcome challenges to ensure you are able to launch and deliver the programme at pace and launch a first cohort in April 2024.
Describe the type of business support offer you intend to develop, including details on the type of delivery (e.g. workshops, mentoring) and the subjects covered (e.g. Intellectual Property training, pitching skills).
How you will either draw on existing organisational skills and resources or engage specialist expertise to deliver the programme;
How you intend to engage with creative industry expertise in developing the business support package; 
How you will resource activity (e.g. additional staff recruitment, training requirements or procuring third party providers);
How you will undertake the procurement activity for the project (if applicable), in line with Public Contracts Regulations 2015; 
Provide a summary of key milestones and deliverables for the business support programme you intend to design and deliver under this grant, including an indication of the time it will take to set up the programme;
Provide a summary of key risks relating to the delivery of the programme and how these will be monitored and managed;
Provide outline costs of how you intend to spend the grant to deliver the business programme, including salaries of staff and contractors; 
Explain how you intend to monitor and report on the programme (this should include expenditure; timetable; outcomes and benefits). Describe the financial management systems and processes you intend to put in place. 
Please provide a clear proposal for how much funding will be drawn down each month from October 2023 to March 2025 and describe how this will be accounted for;
Provide evidence of your organisation’s financial stability, appropriate governance and an ability to administer and account for the grant. In the event of a consortium bid, all bidding organisations must provide evidence of financial stability and the presence of appropriate governance arrangements between all consortium members;
The Solent Create Growth programme is not a consortium application; however, Solent LEP as lead is working in partnership with Portsmouth, Southampton and Isle of Wight Unitary authorities to shape the programme of support for creative businesses in all eight local authorities across the Solent, leveraging existing Creative sector infrastructure across these areas which includes Portsmouth Creates, Southampton Forward, Isle of Wight Creative Network and Portsmouth, Solent and Southampton Universities.
Following the Government announcement on the cessation of core LEP funding and the integration of LEP functions to local authorities, we wanted to provide some security to DCMS for our application. The Solent Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) has announced plans to establish Solent Partners: a new partnership between local industry, academic and civic leaders working together to promote the collective prosperity and sustainability of the Solent economy and committed to maintaining the integrity of this independent business voice to support economic growth and future opportunities for devolution in the Solent. Solent Partners will connect the area's key organisations, champion and showcase the Solent’s excellence locally, nationally and internationally as well as delivering programmes to grow the Solent economy, support businesses, spark innovation, develop talent, promote Net Zero, encourage inward investment, and grow the Solent's sector strengths. 
The Solent LEP has continually evolved, and the ambitions of local partners have broadened following recent successes including the establishment of the Solent Freeport, announced by the Chancellor at the 2021 Budget, and creation of Maritime UK Solent as one of sixteen private sector initiatives identified by HM Government in the Levelling Up Whitepaper during 2022. The Solent is now targeting national recognition through Solent Partners, with a vision to become a nationally leading, industry-led partnership that will build and grow a world-leading, innovative, low-carbon economy. As Solent Partners, we will continue to deliver critical activity for our local businesses and communities on behalf of Government including the well-established Solent Growth Hub and Solent Careers Hub - which has recently been successful in securing an additional £1.2m through the Department for Education to enable us to support skills bootcamps in the Solent. As well as ensuring that the work started through the Solent LEP goes from strength to strength, perhaps most importantly, Solent Partners also gives our area the opportunity to ensure the Solent can continue to benefit from new and exciting opportunities - including those as part of the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero's Powering Up Britain policy, of which The Solent Cluster is at the forefront. The Solent is exceptionally placed to be at the vanguard of environmental innovation as part of the pathway to Net Zero, leading the way in strengthening UK competitiveness on a global stage, in turn levelling up prosperity and opportunity so that all parts of our population and business base can contribute towards economic success. 
Delivering at pace
The Solent CGP has been designed and developed to ensure the programme can be launched and delivered at pace with a first cohort in April 2024. This will be achieved by:
Leveraging existing infrastructure to programme manage, co-ordinate set up activity, develop and deliver a marcomms plan to activate recruitment and awareness and leverage existing LEP governance architecture which is uncomplicated and has the processes and systems in place enabling the Solent CGP to be set up at pace. 
Utilise local networks and our supplier knowledge network enabling us to be efficient and targeted when procuring specialist support. Solent LEP has existing knowledge of procuring similar support at pace such as Peer Networks, Growth Accelerator Programme and Brexit transition support, with draft contractual T&C`s, application forms and promotional activities all of which can be repurposed to meet the needs of the Solent CGP.  
A local partnership approach, rather than a consortium application, enabling time and resources to be prioritised on the procurement of specialist support through one organisation (Solent LEP) with input and advice from the partners and stakeholders.
Utilising existing Creative Networks in Solent to promote, identify and enrol participants to the Solent CGP, including Creative Network South, Film New Forest, Isle of Wight Creative Network, Portsmouth Creates, Southampton Forward cultural compacts in Gosport and Isle of Wight and creative business support and alumni networks operated by the three universities. Further support for recruitment will be provided by the Solent Business Support Taskforce, which includes Business Representative organisations (Hampshire Chamber of Commerce, Federation of Small Businesses, Confederation of British Industries, Institute of Directors), local authorities, banks and other business support providers to offer advice, guidance and direction, acting as a programme board. 
Recruitment of Mentors – to mitigate the risk that local networks lack high-level mentors with relevant sector and/or investment experience, Solent LEP proposes to procure Creative UK, which has an expanding pool of experienced mentors who have worked on delivery in three of the six current areas benefitting from CGP, to deliver the mentoring aspect of the programme. Solent LEP will work with Creative UK and local creative networks to actively recruit additional mentors to ensure that the ‘pool’ has diverse representation (geographic and demographic) as well as sub sector specialisms.   

The Solent Create Growth Programme
The Solent CGP delivery model is a blend of knowledge transfer and knowledge sharing complimented with expert sectoral advice under the strapline ‘Create, Innovate and Grow’. The Solent CGP will: 
Raise awareness: reaching the 4,500 Creative businesses in Solent through a range of newsletters/ezines and social media. In addition to this four-industry specific events will be created for Digital and Tech, Events and festivals, Film, TV and Gaming and Art and Design. 
Screen and signpost: develop an online application form with a view to receiving around 250 expressions of interest. The application form will also require a two-minute video upload on “why I should be selected”. Our experience in managing similar programmes with a high value return and where programmes have limited places, is that this aids the screening process whilst managing expectations. We expect to complete 150 consultations with 45 businesses being accepted onto the Solent CGP across three cohorts of 15. All unsuccessful applicants will be supported by the Growth Hub to access the type of support they require. 
Create: A series of masterclasses (full days) on relevant topics that through our local stakeholder engagement sessions have proven to be barriers to growth for potential high growth creative businesses in the Solent. The topics include: 
Sales – developing a unique proposition, creating a sales plan that explores how and where to generate new revenue opportunities, competitor analysis and how to use digital platforms to enhance the sales process. 
IP - Understand and know how protect ownership of the creativity, how to develop patents and trademarks, leveraging and exploiting IP assets including licensing and monetizing them. 
Export - pricing strategy and routes to market for overseas sales, considering customs procedures and getting paid when selling overseas. 
Leadership - the ability to make choices and plans for growth and understand the behaviours required to operate a culture of coaching/learning for continuous transformation and employee engagement, networking and EDI resulting in managing a diverse workforce. 
Finance - how and where to access finance and what investors will require, i.e. cashflows, forecasts, budgets and a business plan and why they should invest. 
Communications and partnerships - enabling high performance and ongoing engagement with customers and employees leading to sustainable high growth, helping the businesses to understand and communicate their value proposition digitally and in readiness to sell and pitch in person.  
Innovate: A series of Peer networks whereby the business leaders work collaboratively through common business issues, discussing challenges, gain and reflect on feedback and implement practical solutions to overcome them. The Peer networks will enable trusted connections and present new opportunities, improve personal and business performance and build a trusted network which will go beyond the Solent CGP. 
Grow: One-to-one expert sub sectoral mentoring. Sub sector experts will be in Digital and Tech, Events and festivals, Film, TV and Gaming and design. Mentors will have extensive sectoral expertise and a proven track record with the ability to open doors and provide connections to buyers such as TV producers and large international corporates and the ability to support pitch readiness for both investors and new business. 
Legacy showcase: A intimate closed event that will give a platform to the participants in front of an audience of investors and buyers leveraging the connections and format from the highly successful Future Worlds, University of Southampton  and their student founders programme. 

Existing organisational skills and specialist expertise. 
The Solent CGP will draw on existing organisational skills and resources across the partnership (Solent LEP, Portsmouth, Southampton and Isle of Wight Unitary authorities) and will conduct an open procurement exercise to purchase the expertise support required to deliver the Solent CGP. Current experience and achievements of this partnership model includes:
Recent successful ERDF programmes such as Get Set Solent supporting 1400 high growth businesses 
The Solent Apprenticeship and Skills Hub supported 2612 businesses, created 500 new Apprenticeships and leveraged £6.5m in Apprenticeship Levy pledges that supported 300 SMEs with Apprenticeship starts.  
Both these programmes leveraged the partners resources such as Growth and Economic Development teams to promote and generate enquiries and referrals to the intensive support, outsourced to specialist partners such as YTKO. 

To oversee the delivery of the Solent CGP, a Project Board, made up of representatives from the CI sector, adjacent sector expertise and stakeholders will be created to support the delivery of the business package. This creative industry expertise will be drawn from the following established networks and groups: 
Southampton 2025 UK City of Culture activity – The bid consultation electrified local entrepreneurs, businesses health care experts, artists and the regions' diverse communities, which has developed new relationships across the Creative and Culture sector such as the “SO let’s talk about music festival” with SoCo and Solent University. 
Creative leaders in sectors such as in film with the managing producer of Watershed and Film Hub Southwest, Regional Director of Arts Council England, who are co-funding (alongside Solent LEP) a Solent Cultural plan. 
Local Creative clusters – Solent Partners will collaborate on raising business awareness and stimulating applications to CGP through joint working with Creative Network South, Portsmouth Creates, IW Creatives, Business and IP Centre (BIPC), Film New Forest, Pints of view, a business networking group for creative services businesses and Arts Council England-sponsored cultural compacts in Gosport and Isle of Wight. (Portsmouth Creates will be heavily featured in the Portsmouth & South Coast Business Week 19 - 23 Feb 2024.)
Art and design networks such as Folio, a collective of professional arts and cultural organisations in the New Forest, Ladies, wine & design and Portsmouth Freelancers. 
Adjacent sector networks - Tech Solent, a network and partnership circa 500 businesses with an ambition to connect, develop and promote technology across the Solent. Solent Digital Skills partnership - a network of public and private sector expertise to include IBM, Google, Microsoft, Cisco, Amazon Studios, UK Tech cluster group, Future Dot Now (Liz Williams MBE and CEO), Maggie Philbin, CEO of Teen Tech. 
Venture Fest South, a festival of innovation bringing together entrepreneurs, businesses, creative minds and investors. Senior representatives from Creative industries and large businesses with a large number of Creative roles such as in DSTL and BAE. 
Universities - Our three Universities have experience and expertise and offer a range of sector expertise such as the Centre for Creative and Immersive Extended Reality (CCIXR) the UK`s first integrated facility supporting innovation in the Creative and digital sectors and the new £1m virtual production facility at Solent University, which will come on stream in September 2023. Experts in motion capture, music technology, photogrammetry, volumetric video studio, mixed reality and XR studio, Southampton`s Web Science Institute with leading web scientist Professor Dame Wendy Hall, known internationally for her development in web science and recognised across the world for her pioneering role as one of the first computer scientists to embark on serious research into multi- and hyper-media technologies before the existence of the World Wide Web.
Solent University`s Trans-National Creative exchange which supports emerging creative talent from Europe and China and designers such as Hans J.Galutera, whose experience of maritime hospitality design, including onboard Royal Caribbean International’s Enchantment of the Seas and signature restaurants created for celebrity chefs such as Michel Roux and Michael Schwartz, highlights the potential supply chain within the maritime sector.
Other supply chain networks  - Space South Central is the largest regional space cluster in the UK. The Solent is at the heart of the activity with both the University of Portsmouth and University of Southampton leading academic partners. Sector Stakeholders (local and national) – considerable contacts and relationships across  Maritime UK Solent (wholly owned by Solent LEP) board members include Carnival UK, Royal Navy and Airbus, all of which have a high proportion of Creative sector roles and needs. The University of Southampton’s Masters in Cyber Security is one of only 25 MSc programmes in the UK to be awarded a full certification against the  National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) Certified Master’s standard. 
Events and festivals – the IOW is Britain's festival island, supported by be events in music, arts and sport. As well as the internationally renowned Isle of Wight Festival, the island is home to a considerable number of small-medium sized independent boutique festivals, food festivals and summer shows, including Rhythm Tree, many of which have been etched in our history for over a century. The Solent is home to a growing number of events and festivals such as Victorious Festival founded in 2011 and now generating an economic impact of £16m and The Ageas Bowl, hosting bands such as Arctic Monkeys and internal Cricket events.  
Additional staff recruitment, training requirements and procuring third party providers)
The Solent CGP will be resourced by a range of activities that will deliver quality outcomes and enable the programme to be delivered at pace. 
Staffing – A Programme Manager will be appointed. The current Digital Skills Partnership Manager, employed by Solent LEP has been identified and will enable the programme to mobilise at pace and with minimal disruption, leveraging existing networks and relationships to support business engagement. In addition to this, Growth Hub and economic development teams will provide signposting and referrals to the programme. Marketing and Communications will be managed through existing infrastructure in place at Solent LEP. 
Training – Programme Manager (PM) is currently employed by Solent LEP and has undergone mandatory training, induction. The PM has experience of managing complex business support programmes within other LEP`s and Local authorities. A CPD will be put in place and is likely to include sub sector education such as in Film, Arts, design etc.  
Third party providers – We have identified the need to procure third party providers to deliver the “Create, innovate and Grow” elements of our proposal. The PM will lead on the development of a specification which will go live through Portsmouth City Council`s (as accountable body for Solent LEP) procurement portal, Intend. The PM will conduct market research pre-ITT with potential suppliers to develop the specification to ensure its viability. 

The Solent CGP procurement activity will be in line with the public contract's regulations 2015. We will adhere to Portsmouth City Council`s (as accountable body for Solent LEP) contract and procurement rules summarised below. 

As detailed above the Solent CGP will require specialist delivery partners to deliver the “Create, Innovate and Grow” elements of the programme. Our intention for each of these delivery mechanisms is as follows:
Create – Masterclasses, Using the extensive networks and experience of the Solent CGP partnership (Growth Hub and Unitary authorities) run a mini procurement exercise obtaining a minimum of three quotes from potential suppliers for each topic recognising the specialisms that are required for each and the total value per subject (£9,000) as it is unlikely that one supplier will be specialist in all seven areas. This is in line with PCC procurement rules for contracts with a value of between £5,000 and £30,000. 
Innovate – Peer networks, develop a specification for a competitive process advertised on contracts finder and PCC`s e-sourcing site, Intend, to source one organisation to lead on and deliver the Peer networking element of the programme (value £70,000). This is in line with the PCC procurement rules for contracts with a value of over £30,000 and under the relevant threshold (£150,000).  Solent LEP has experience of sourcing and delivering peer network suppliers. Previously secured £250K funding from BEIS and supported 220 businesses with circa 4,000 hours of peer networking across the Solent. 
Grow – mentoring. Work with Creative UK, a current supplier to areas delivering the CGP to access their bank of expert creative sector mentors. As per PCC procurement guidelines the Solent CGP will obtain a single tender or quote (value £108,000) and will obtain written approval from the Solent LEP Business Development Director as per the guidance of contracts with a value of over £30,000 and under the relevant threshold of £150,000. 
Key milestones and deliverables for the business support programme 
Key milestones and programme of delivery is shown in the Gantt chart below. Also available as appendix 1. 

Key deliverables for the Solent CGP are: 

Risk register
Risk register - also available in appendix 1.

Insert from files - excel


Budget
Budget  - also available in appendix 1. 

See proposed in file section – will drop in 

Programme Monitoring, Reporting and Financial Management
At the outset of the Solent CGP we will establish a monitoring framework in consultation with DCMS and the national evaluator. The Solent CGP programme Manager will attend the national steering group and quarterly advisory boards to share best practise and knowledge with other CGP regions and national partners, Innovate UK. 

Solent LEP has extensive experience and a long-established record of very strong and robust governance and prioritises this to ensure that it is fully meeting all its programme monitoring responsibilities and continues to demonstrate best practice in the context of both public and private sector governance in the collection and submission of data returns to government.  To monitor and report on the Solent CGP, the Solent LEP will:
Create a Solent CGP advisory group, with representation from the three unitary authorities, a range of Creative Solent stakeholders and The Accountable Body, Portsmouth City Council (PCC) section 151 Officer or their representative. The Steering group will ensure appropriate financial oversight in relation to the activity and is critical in underpinning all of the activity. The steering group will meet quarterly. 
Embed the Solent CGP into the existing governance architecture for Solent LEP from both a corporate governance and advisory perspective. The LEP`s Funding, Finance and Performance Management Group (FFPMG) scrutinises the performance, impact and value for money of the Solent CGP. PCC also conduct the annual audit returns on behalf of the Solent LEP. FFPMG`s role is to ensure the CGP complies with the ‘principles of funding,’ which includes using robust monitoring and evaluation systems to exercise continuous service improvement; ensure excellence in quality delivery and deliver greater levels of impact on business. 
Utilise the existing Solent LEP CRM to develop an online application form which will enable data to be collected, stored and reported efficiently. This will be presented in a performance dashboard alongside accounts produced by PCC to scrutinise performance impact and value for money.  The dashboard, produced through Power BI, will highlight performance against Outputs and Outcomes. 
Issue participant satisfaction surveys through e-survey on the CRM with feedback trends and satisfaction scores fed into the performance dashboard. 
Set up Purchase Orders with each supplier following procurement. All associated costs for the Creative Growth Programme will be paid through the Accountable Body's (Portsmouth City Council) finance system after the costs are approved for payment by the Solent LEP executive body. The Creative Growth Programme will have its own dedicated cost code to keep track of the expenditure, and this will be monitored through a dedicated finance resource and the programme manager on a monthly basis. When funding is received, it is used to finance the Creative Growth Programme activities through standard accounting methods. Any residual expenditure that the DCMS funding does not cover will be financed through other Solent LEP resources.


Draw-down of funding
 
See attached appendix 2


Governance arrangements and financial stability
The Solent LEP funds are managed through its Accountable Body, Portsmouth City Council. Portsmouth City Council is legally required to have adequate financial controls with appropriate policies and procedures as they are handling public funding. All internal financial controls are monitored and scrutinised by the internal audit department on an annual basis. The Solent LEP also has a subcommittee called the Funding, Finance and Performance Management Group (FFPMG) made up of Solent LEP Board members who meet on a regular basis to review the Solent LEP financial information in detail. The Accountable Body internal audit function also present findings from any financial audits on a regular basis at these meetings. All findings from these meetings are reported to the Solent LEP Board. Details of the Solent LEP's governance structure can be found here: Governance - Solent LEP. Our approach to ensure the Solent CGP is compliant and meets the required outcomes is to utilise the existing LEP governance arrangements.  
 
The latest draft accounts for Portsmouth City Council can be found here:  Portsmouth-City-Council-Draft-Statement-of-Accounts-2022-23.pdf
 
The Solent LEP has a long history of administering and accounting for various large government grants. An example of the largest government grant that has been administered by the Solent LEP is through the Solent Growth Deal which was awarded for £182.92m to help create jobs, support businesses and encourage growth in the Solent area. Details of which can be found here:  Solent Growth Deal - Solent LEP.
3.4 Programme Legacy:
Local area partnerships should demonstrate how the programme will support them in developing partnerships and building long-term capacity and legacy infrastructure to support the creative industries in their area after the programme ends. Please provide details against each of the following:
How does the programme’s stated objectives align with existing or future local cultural, creative industries and economic growth strategies or plans? 
How will you support local economic growth and productivity in the creative sector beyond the CGP? DCMS welcomes local area partnerships to identify opportunities for additional funding to support the continuation of the programme beyond its lifecycle or to support complementary feeder and follow-on programmes. 
Describe how you will use the programme to strengthen local understanding and partnerships with CI businesses within the region and how you will build capacity in the local area partnership team for supporting the CIs;
Describe what support you intend to provide to businesses that have successfully been through the CGP beyond the programme, to help ensure that they continue to realise their growth potential;
Describe how you will strengthen investor networks willing to invest in the CIs within the region.
Alignment with existing or future local growth strategies and plans
Solent LEP and Arts Council England have co-commissioned a new Solent Cultural plan, which Solent Partners will adopt as part of a strategy and investment framework for the growth of creative industries in the Solent area. 
Solent Creative Investment Framework
A new Creative Investment Framework will be developed which will, for the first time, bring together efforts to secure public and private sector investment in the sector in a single strategic delivery model, identifying accountability for key account management of both creative businesses and investors in the sector.
The new Creative Investment Framework will prioritise:
Building on CGP to develop creative investor networks and increase the supply of investment capital to creative businesses across the Solent area.
Supply-side developments to build a pipeline of creative, digital, craft and management talent to support growth of the creative sector.
Investment in cultural and creative production, including support for festivals and events in the Solent region as a critical element of the visitor offer.
Capacity building creative networks across the Solent, including future bids for City of Culture status and other opportunities to showcase the region’s creative industries on an international stage.
Developing supply chain relationships between the creative industries and other priority sectors of the Solent economy, notably The Solent Cluster, Maritime UK Solent and Space South Central, the UK’s leading regional space cluster.
The Cultural Investment Framework will draw investment from Solent Freeport, which will generate £400-500m per annum from retention of business rates in the three tax-free zones, and will look to supplement this with bids for other government funding from DCMS and its arm’s-length bodies (including ACE, BFI, National Lottery Heritage Fund) and the Department for Education.

Figure 8: Solent Creative Investment Framework


Solent 2050 
The Creative Investment Framework articulates the contribution of the creative industries to the objectives of the Solent Partners’ Solent 2050 strategy. CGP directly addresses five of the seven priorities of that strategy:
A thriving visitor, creative and cultural economy, capitalising on the Solent’s superb natural beauty and rich maritime history. 
An outstanding business environment that encourages innovation, fosters collaboration and enables businesses of all sizes and sectors to thrive. 
Developing a world-class talent base, helping people at all stages of their career build the skills they need to respond to new technology and drive an innovative knowledge-based economy. 
The UK’s capital of coastal renaissance, harnessing new technologies and approaches to revitalise and level up economic opportunity across all of our coastal communities. 
Pioneering approaches to climate change adaptation and decarbonisation, linked to our coastal setting, and establishing real expertise which other regions – nationally and globally – can learn from. 
Skills
The Solent Local Skills Improvement Plan identifies Creative Industries as a priority sector and points up the need for specialised skills in creative production, set design and construction, lighting and sound technicians, coding, virtual reality and Artificial Intelligence. Solent CGP will develop a cadre of creative business leaders whose own increased need for new talent and skills will stimulate attraction and retention of people with creative and digital skills, and more strongly identify the Solent as a destination of choice for mid-career creative professionals, stopping and reversing the ‘brain drain’ to London and other creative hubs such as Bournemouth and Bristol.
Building capacity in the Solent’s creative ecology
Solent Cultural Plan
One of the outputs of the new Solent Cultural Plan will be recommendations for governance structures to bring the diverse cultural and creative industries networks across the Solent into a more streamlined and accountable relationship with decision making and investment structures within the Solent Partners. 
The Solent Cultural Plan will also set out how the partners intend to strengthen relationships with DCMS and its arm’s length bodies, including ACE, BFI and the National Lottery Heritage Fund, to grow investment in cultural and creative industries in the Solent to at least match regional and national average investment per capita.
Solent CGP’s success in increasing the productive capacity and talent base of Solent’s creative production sector will be an important element in the business case for increased investment into key elements of Solent’s cultural offer, including events and festivals.
As identified by consultation with businesses during the compilation of this bid our approach will be to focus on building capacity within and linkages between existing groups recognised (and in many cases led and convened by) the creative businesses themselves many of whom have expressed a need for tailored support during the development of this bid.  As well as the businesses which go through the CGP and secure investment, the process of promoting the scheme and engaging businesses will trigger increased demand for other specialist sector support and investment.
In this way, the Solent CGP will build on the regions existing business ecology, infrastructure and knowledge assets to develop the region as a creative powerhouse. Increased demand (and increased visibility of demand to a range of public and private providers) will improve utilisation and reach of existing capacity in:
Solent Growth Hub
A range of flexible creative workspaces, in rural areas and market towns as well as cities. 
Business & IP Centre Library in Southampton (one of a national network of 20, and the only one in the Solent region) provides access to:
Workshops, events and one-to-one appointments for anyone with a business or business idea
Business information and resources including market research intelligence, UK and global company data
Intellectual property guidance and support
Free access to co-working professional spaces and specialised facilities including PhotoHub,  an in-house studio where members of the public can take professional quality headshots; SellersHub: a dedicated space for professional product photography and CreatorsHub: a videography studio for recording and editing video content.
Creative Network South will be increasingly valued in its articulation of the Solent’s role in creative ‘superclusters’ and opportunities to grow international trade and knowledge exchange, supported by Hampshire Chamber. 
Plans to develop Film Solent as a regional Film Office will draw new impetus from the increased awareness of inward investment opportunities in film and television and demand for a crew database to service new productions.
Private sector partnerships with Google, Microsoft, IBM, Cisco, Future Dot Now, Digital poverty alliance, Amazon Studios, Pfizer will be strengthened by increased awareness amongst their key account managers of potential supply chain and collaborative R&D relationships with high growth Creative businesses.
Continuation of creative business growth support beyond CGP
Solent Growth Hub will track investments and account management post programme to monitor long term impact. There is previous experience of doing this with LEP investments – the £182m Solent growth deal is an example. 
CREATE Solent platform is growing, encouraging ongoing collaboration, peer groups and providing a showcase window to regional, national and international investors – through relationships with BDT and FDI teams, too.
Strengthening investor networks
The Solent CGP will target the development of stronger supply chain relationships between creative industries and Solent cluster organisations and support creative businesses’ investment in environmental innovation as a critical source of competitive advantage, sustainability, higher level skills development and increased access to export markets. Those relationships will be formalised and embedded in regional economic strategy through the Creative Investment Framework.
The Solent Cultural Strategy (see above) will identify new investor opportunities and determine accountability for relationship management with DCMS and its key arm’s-length bodies
We will work with the following networks to strengthen investor communities and investment in the CI sector:  
Venture Fest South – the Creative Investment Framework recognises the opportunity to build on the existing recognition factor of Venture Fest South amongst creative business and develop traction to create a network of local investors that attend and meet with Creative innovators. Solent has pockets of wealthy individuals and senior leaders from large corporates; Investment Managers in the Growth Hub will use CGP as an opportunity to target those networks and key High Net Worth Individuals in the region, providing them with greater visibility and awareness of opportunities to invest in Creative businesses and a rational to strengthen investor communities and Angel investor networks in order to share risks.  We can use CGP to leverage our existing good relationship with Innovate UK regional Director and KTN, both of whom are sponsors and supporters of Venture Fest South, to catalyse regional investors and get national traction, providing a platform for engagement at future Venture Fest events. This will continue to attract Creatives and will keep them engaged and supported post Solent CGP. 
Public (UKSPF, Crowdfunder and LEP),
University-led investor communities (such as Future Worlds and SETSquared)  
Private investors, (Southeast Business Angels and Barclays Eagle Lab, which has workspace and business mentors in Portsmouth and Southampton).  
Leverage Maritime UK Solent – Creative Maritime Businesses – joint trade mission to London International Shipping Week to meet with investors. Differentiates our offer and links creatives to the regional sectoral strengths.
3.5. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
Local area partnerships should demonstrate their commitment to opening up access and broadening the diversity of workforce in creative businesses in their area. Please provide details against the following:
Describe the specific EDI challenges facing creative businesses in the region;
Describe how you intend to engage diverse businesses, employing those with protected characteristics, as part of the CGP; 
Describe how the business support offer provided will support businesses in diversifying their workforce and open up opportunities for those with protected characteristics; 
Explain how you will monitor the diversity of workforce in the businesses supported.
The Solent CGP area is home to a diverse population (of 1.3 million people) and economy. Solent Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) and its partners in the unitary authorities of Isle of Wight, Southampton and Portsmouth, aim to set the Solent area on a pathway to more prosperous future for all. We all will ensure that the Solent CGP works with all socio-economic groups, genders, age groups, classes, minority communities, and people with disabilities. We will also factor in the challenges of supporting both urban and rural business into our planning.
 
The Solent LEP Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy sets out our three-point plan to embracing diversity: 

Our Leadership and Partnerships 
Our Communities 
Our Staff.
 Ensuring equality, diversity and inclusion across all three areas is fundamentally important to strengthening the work of the LEP. We recognise that our diversity is our strength and that the best way to generate sustainable growth is to utilise all talents in the Solent from all our communities. As a partnership organisation, the LEP itself was founded on the belief that our local community and area is Together Stronger. Inclusivity has therefore always been a central principle to our organisation.
Overview of the specific Equality, Diversity and Inclusion challenges facing creative businesses in the Solent CGP region
The Solent LEP area covers the local authorities of Eastleigh, Fareham, Gosport, Havant, Isle of Wight, Portsmouth, Southampton, and the New Forest, as well as part of Hampshire County and most of the New Forest National Park Authority area. It has a population of around 1.3 million people and 41,600 enterprises.
 In terms of ethnicity, the two cities are the most diverse areas in the region. Southampton is becoming more diverse with 68.1% of usual residents classed as white British in 2021 Census, a decrease of -7.9% since Census 2011. In Portsmouth, the percentage of people who did not identify with at least one UK national identity increased from 7.4% in the 2011 Census to 10.4% in the 2021 Census. The rest of the region breaks down as follows (2021 Census): Eastleigh (88% White British), Fareham/Havant/New Forest (all 93% White British), the Isle of White (97%) and Gosport (92% White British. The New Forest has significant numbers of Roma, Irish and Gypsy Travellers. 
Pockets of high deprivation still persist in some areas including Gosport, Portsmouth and Southampton with higher than national and regional average unemployment and lower than average earnings and educational level.
 Between the last two censuses, the average (median) age of the Isle of Wight increased by five years, from 46 to 51 years of age. Both the Island and the New Forest have a higher average (median) age than England (40 years).
Barriers to Ethnic minority-led businesses (EMB)
Recent research, including that carried out by British Business Bank (2020) and Lloyds Bank (2021) quantifies the contribution that EMBs make to the UK economy whilst highlighting the barriers that ethnic minority entrepreneurs typically face in trying to grow their businesses.
EMBs are at a particular disadvantage in relation to accessing finance, where lived experience of racism when presenting as an EMB is compounded by worries about taking on debt, not knowing which funding option to choose and a fear of rejection. The result is that more than 90% of all discouraged borrowers are creditworthy but have never approached a bank.  
Unsurprisingly, this results in reduced output. In the UK, a significantly lower percentage of black business owners (3%) who worked full-time before starting a business reported turnover of £250,000 or more, compared with the overall business owner population at 16%. Those barriers are reflected in the experience of Solent partners in encouraging and attracting disadvantaged groups to access the business support services on offer. Peer networks for ethnically diverse business leaders (and female business leaders) have tended to be undersubscribed and the impact of this can be seen in lower levels of external investment attracted to those businesses.
National evidence suggests that the Creative industries are less diverse than the average for all industries in the UK, presenting a further barrier to encouraging the growth of EMBs in the sector. 
Opportunities to address these barriers include:
Southampton Forward, an important creative sector partner, is delivering on the city’s cultural strategy which came out of the UK City of Culture 2025 consultation. Southampton’s bid centred on access, inclusion, participation, and sustainability, building on Southampton’s status as a City of Sanctuary and realising the potential of its diverse communities and global majority led arts and cultural organisations. The bid had specific ambition in the growth of Creative enterprise, and we will take that thinking and experience forward into the design of marketing and delivery of Solent CGP. Southampton's Business and IP centre (BIPC) has supported 200 entrepreneurs and starts ups in the past 12 months, 49% women, 31% under 35, 38% BME, 34% Disabled, 23% deprived areas
Portsmouth Bangladesh Business Association, which has a track record of developing local Bangladeshi-led businesses and promoting international trade through visits and missions, and India Business Association both have strong networks of South Asian business leaders.
Barclays Bank has been working in partnership with the Growth Hub to establish peer networks of EMB leaders across the Solent region. 
The promotion and marketing of CGP will be informed by best practice of these and other voluntary, community and third sector organisations within the Solent to ensure that additional effort is made to engage global majority Creative entrepreneurs and to support their increase representation amongst the business cohorts.
Gender
National statistics reflect the gender gap in employment in senior roles in the Creative Industries – a gap which becomes much wider when we look at the proportion of founders securing investment for growth. Women are disadvantaged at every stage of the entrepreneurial journey: Fewer women than men express the intention of starting a business in the next three years, and women-led businesses are substantially less likely to reach a turnover of £1m - £50m than male-owned businesses. 
Solent LEP has been working closely with NatWest bank to implement the recommendations of the Alison Rose Review; supporting female entrepreneurs, being the first LEP in England outside of the four pilot areas to implement the ”Expert in residence programme”  which dedicated NatWest branch Managers to be based in Growth Hubs and in their wider community, and will be available to host events, provide expert insight and advice on business finance, and support their LEP to access additional expertise to help female-led businesses achieve their potential.
Disability 
Disability affects a significant proportion of our community: 52% of business owners have experienced a barrier due to their disability or health condition. Solent LEP works closely with The Federation of Small Businesses (FSB), which has created a free online hub, Business Without Barriers, aimed at supporting disabled entrepreneurs and encouraging small businesses to be more inclusive and accessible. From starting a business to improving workplace accessibility, Business Without Barriers  brings together a wealth of information, interviews, and resources from leading experts and organisations – all designed for small business owners and the self-employed. Solent LEP will work in partnership with FSB and other charitable organisations supporting and championing disabled entrepreneurs, including Leonard Cheshire, to ensure that Creative business owners and individuals with a disability can access the Solent CGP and its delivery is adjusted to meet their specific needs.

Neurodiversity
Neurodiversity is increasingly recognised as an invaluable asset by creative and tech employers in some key roles, but individuals with a range of neurological differences still face prejudice and barriers in accessing employment and investment. Solent LEP convenes a Neurodiversity Business Consortium; and Creative Network South has been particularly active and vocal in championing the benefits of employing neurodiverse people within the Creative sector. We will consult with those groups to ensure that the marketing and programming of Solent CGP makes all possible allowances to support and facilitate applications from neurodiverse Creative business leaders. 
Diversifying access to creative skills and employment 
The Solent LSIF bid commits institutions across the Solent area to coordinated delivery of creative skills across academic, technical and apprenticeship pathways within each of the highlighted skills areas (detailed in 3.2, above). This presents opportunities to work with employers to grow their understanding of how they can reduce their reliance on graduate entry and make increasing use of technical qualifications and apprenticeships (including those at levels 4 and 5) which can be realised in a much shorter time than ‘traditional’ graduate entry routes, to address their workforce needs in the short to medium term. 
That has additional benefits in terms of increasing diversity in the creative workforce: 
To address exclusion of communities in which there is less experience of immediate family or peers having entered university from opportunities for creative employment. 
To encourage more women, including those returning to work after a break for caring responsibilities, to consider creative occupations.
To promote those mechanisms as a way to take advantage of transferable skills present in the workforce of other sectors which may be going through structural changes.  
To promote creative sector employment opportunities as a valid alternative to more experienced, mid-career individuals with a range of technical and project management skills in short supply in the creative sector.
Business & IP Centre
Southampton's BIPC (the only one in the region) has supported 200 entrepreneurs and start-ups in less than 12 months: 49% women, 31% under 35, 38% BME, 34% Disabled, 23% from more deprived areas. BIPC will help identify and refer diverse- and female-led business to CGP.
Arts Council England Priority Places
Arts Council England’s Let’s Create strategy for 2020-30 sees investment prioritised toward areas in which it sees a balance of need and opportunity to increase cultural engagement. Portsmouth, Isle of Wight, Gosport and New Forest are all identified amongst 58 ‘Priority Places’, determined by a multi-factor methodology applied to every local authority area in England. Assessment of need was determined by:

% of LSOAs in LA within lower two deciles of IMD
Active Lives Score
% of pupils in LA eligible for Free School Meals
% of pupils in LA with special Educational Needs
Red Cross Vulnerability Index Score
Proportion of Population - Life impacted by disability or long-term health condition
Proportion of Population - Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
Each of the four Solent authorities identified as Priority Places demonstrated High Need and High Opportunity – Portsmouth was ranked second amongst 45 local authorities in the ACE SW region for need. In addition, Havant scored fourth for Need but did not present sufficient evidence of opportunity (the capacity and ambition at this moment in time to increase cultural engagement) to achieve Priority Place status. Southampton scored highest of all local authorities in the ACE SW region for opportunity but did not demonstrate enough evidence of need to be included as a Priority place.
ACE investment in National Portfolio Organisations, including diverse-led companies, across the Solent, and in cultural compacts in Gosport and Isle of Wight provides capacity within local arts and cultural organisations to address the needs of global majority creative business owners. Solent Partners will work in partnership with ACE and other DCMS arms-length bodies, including BFI and National Lottery Heritage Fund, to raise awareness of opportunities for Creative EMBs in the Solent to engage with CGP.

How we will monitor the diversity of workforce in the businesses supported by the Solent CGP
All partners and contractors have shared their Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Polices with the Solent LEP as part of the planning for the Solent CGP, they have also committed to the Solent LEP Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy. We will set clear equality, diversity and inclusion objectives for all partners and the programme. 
We will ensure that the programme is in run in compliance with the Public Sector Equality Duty (Equality Act 2010). We will work with employers to eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation. We will celebrate diversity and promote good relations between people who share a protected characteristic and those who do not. 
We will ensure the Solent CGP programme materials are available in British Sign Language and are also available in translated versions. We will not rely on social media and the internet to promote the service; we will have a visible presence at events and forums to ensure we engage all sections of the Solent community. 
As well as having Equality, Diversity and Inclusion as a standing Project Board agenda item, the Solent CGP Board will appoint a Diversity Champion. Their role will be to ensure the Board understands their responsibility regarding Public Sector Equality Duty and the full Equality Act 2010. They will also offer check and challenge to the Board on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion matters. They will ensure the design, development and implementation of the programme takes full account of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion issues and utilises the full potential of our diverse workforce and business ownership in the Solent.
We will use data and demographic information when monitoring outputs, outcomes and impacts to ensure the programme benefits creative businesses led by people with protected characteristics and that all businesses are supported to diversify their workforce. 
In terms of monitoring, evaluation and assessment we will: 

Monitor - undertake extensive monitoring of demographic and protected characteristics both at all main intervention stages. The collected data will be anonymised and published. We will use this data to work with partners to manage their performance and adjust practice where required to respond to gaps as well as meet and exceed agreed benchmarks.
Evaluate - undertake on a rolling basis to allow changes in the programme to be made as required.
Assess - undertake end-point assessments to measure the progress made by participants.
Publish - publish information to evidence our compliance with how we are meeting Public Sector Equality Duty and how we are enabling all parts, communities, and groups within the Solent region.

[/TABLE]


[TABLE 6]
Privacy Notice
All information will be processed in compliance with the Data Protection Act 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation and any other relevant data protection legislation.
Who controls the information the applicant provides?
The Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) controls any personal data the applicant provides in their answers. 
Why are we collecting and processing applicant’s personal data? 
The applicant’s personal data is being collected and processed by DCMS to assess their application and suitability for the Create Growth Programme. Our legal basis for the processing is that it is necessary for performance of a task in the public interest. 
Will we share the applicant’s personal data? 
The applicant’s personal data may be shared with other government departments and non-departmental public bodies as part of the grant management process, including but not limited to the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). 
We may also share their personal data with third parties if we are required to do so by law — for example, by court order, or to prevent fraud or other crime.
We will not transfer the applicant’s personal data outside of the European Economic Area (EEA) or to international organisations.
If we are required to share details of the application further or use an applicant’s responses to illustrate findings, we will ensure that neither individuals nor the organisation represented are identifiable.
DCMS may share information (excluding personal data) relating to an application with third parties outside government where required to do so by law, for example in accordance with access to information regimes, such as are primarily the Freedom of Information Act 2000.
How long will we keep an applicant’s personal data for?
If an application is unsuccessful, it will be retained until March 2024, after which it will be destroyed. If an application is successful, it will be retained until March 2029, for analysis and reporting after which it will be destroyed.
An applicant’s rights over their personal data 
Applicants have the right to see what personal data we have about them, to have it corrected, to request that we restrict what we do with their data in certain circumstances, and to ask us to stop using their data, but keep it on record.
An applicant’s right to complain
Applicants also have the right to lodge a complaint to the Information Commissioner's Office about our practices, to do so please visit the Information Commissioner’s Office website: https://ico.org.uk/concerns.
Please confirm below that the applicant has read and understood this statement and agrees with its terms. 
If applicants need any further information please contact: Data Protection Officer via dcmsdataprotection@culture.gov.uk.yuhjhgyolik90
[/TABLE]
