
[PAGE 1]
  Feasibility study for a Film Office for Derby & Derbyshire     August 2022         www.thefifthsector.co.uk  


[PAGE 2]
Contents  Feasibility study for a Film Office for Derby & Derbyshire ....... 1 August 2022 ......................................................................... 1 Contents .................................................................................. 2 The brief ................................................................................... 1 Prioritisation ............................................................................. 2 Inward investment ................................................................ 2 Place promotion ................................................................... 2 Operational capacity ............................................................ 3 Budget .................................................................................. 3 Interoperability with other agencies ..................................... 4 Skills development ............................................................... 5 Sector support ..................................................................... 6 Financial return ..................................................................... 6 Missing evidence ................................................................. 7 Survey results .......................................................................... 8 Other priorities identified through consultation .................. 11 Recommendations ................................................................. 12 Appendix 1: Respondents ..................................................... 14 Appendix 2: Liverpool Film Office’s prioritisation .................. 16 Appendix 3: Job descriptions ................................................ 18 

[PAGE 3]
 
 1 The brief Derby City Council and Derbyshire County Council commissioned The Fifth Sector to establish feasibility of creating a joint film office to support investment in film and television production and talent development in both authorities.  The study focuses on prioritisation of seven outcomes, first over an initial two-year period whilst the Film Office is established and then thinking about outcomes over five years. The elements are: • Inward investment • Place promotion • Operational capacity • Interoperability with other agencies • Skills and talent development • Sector support • Financial return We used a mixture of methods, including an online survey, a focused depth interview with an existing film office which covers multiple local authority areas (Liverpool Film Office), discussion with ScreenSkills and evidence from other recent work in Yorkshire and the North East which involves the expansion of the film and high-end television investment and production services offer. We also approached Creative UK to gain an overview of its services offer to both investors and local businesses and demand for those services; we were unable to get its response during the period of this study. About the Fifth Sector The Fifth Sector is a specialist cultural and creative industries consultancy, founded in 2011 by Iain Bennett, former sector leader for Digital & Creative Industries at Northwest Regional Development Agency. Our work consistently convenes diverse constituents and stakeholders within a cultural ecology and wider policy context to cohere a central narrative on place. This is drawn from comparison of multiple data sources and from inclusive engagement of people. Our process aligns the assets in place – people foremost amongst those, but also cultural venues and organisations, heritage, the creative workforce, elements of the production and innovation system, existing strategic partnerships and relationships – to distil a narrative which centres on the capabilities and ambitions of the people in a place and to give a sense of what more could be done by working cooperatively and in an inclusive way. For this assignment, Iain was partnered by long time Fifth Sector Associate Lynne McCadden, formerly Managing Director of Vision+Media, the regional screen agency for North West England and a recognised authority on sector and talent development for the screen industries.  Iain Bennett iain@thefifthsector.co.uk www.thefifthsector.co.uk     

[PAGE 4]
 
 2 PrioritisationInward investment All film offices have a focus on inward investment. This can include any or all of the following: • Promotion of locations and location services to broadcasters and “mobile” productions, both in the UK and internationally • Location finder services in response to enquiries • Maintaining a list of crew, facilities, production and ancillary services available within the area (NB: this is not always “local” crew, as many specialists work across the Midlands, North and nationally rather than confining themselves to one area) • “Concierge” services for inbound productions – support with applications for licences and permits needed to carry out location shooting, negotiating deals with local hotels for cast and crew accommodation etc. • Grant and equity investments for local and inbound productions • Skills and talent development, eg, internships/ placements on productions shooting locally; skills training; apprenticeships; mentoring • Sector support – a mixture of grant and equity funding to support development of new IP and/or the growth of local production companies • Capacity building – investing in new production and post-production facilities This work focuses on outputs and outcomes with direct economic value: investment, jobs, business growth.  Place promotion  Place promotion focuses on the association an area has with film and television production in general, or with a particular production. It tends to form part of a visitor economy strategy, rather than economic development. Examples range from Northern Ireland’s promotion of its association with “Game of Thrones” to “The Broadchurch Effect” in West Bay in Dorset. This has indirect economic benefits and should be seen as an outcome rather than an output. An independent review commissioned by Visit England and Creative England in 2014 calculated that ‘screen tourism’ was worth £140m to local economies. For example, Harry Potter films brought £4.3m of benefit to Alnwick in Northumberland; Bampton benefitted by £2.7m from ‘Downton Abbey’; and West Bay benefitted by over £1m from ‘Broadchurch’. In raising the profile of an area, it may indirectly stimulate location enquiries and create jobs and support business growth through increase of visitor numbers.  But it does not necessarily create any new capacity for film production and may lead to other conflicts: • Existing locations may not be able to keep up with demand • Enquiries about locations may not be shared, resulting in lost opportunities for the area • Managing risks around perception of an area (see The Responder case study below) • With two local authorities involved, those conflicts may be exacerbated 

[PAGE 5]
 
 3 Inward investment vs Place promotion The initial investment decision needs to focus on whether the initiative is an economic one (to drive inward investment and support jobs, business growth and GVA) or a cultural one (about place/attracting visitors). Attempting both (a) takes too much resource (b) risks setting up internal conflicts of interest (see below) and (c) confuses investors. Film offices tend to be located in one of two places: • Economic development • Tourism It's difficult to do both: • If the economic development team attracts investment in a project that does not paint the area in a positive light, it could create a conflict of interest with Tourism: eg, The Responder views Liverpool through a lens of police corruption, but was a £10m high end television production for international distribution which generated massive employment and spillovers:  o With exception of Martin Freeman, all the cast was local o Most of the crew was local o It provided training opportunities o The Liverpool Film Fund stands to make a return on its equity investment • In that context, the fact that the production garnered a great critical reaction and may have encouraged an element of “screen tourism” is incidental. • If you land a large international project (eg, The Batman) you get both economic and reputational benefits - huge international global free publicity and a multi-million-pound boost to the local economy – but that is “the dream”. Operational capacity Operational capacity is best spread across two roles: • Film and Location Officer: “Somebody to make the phone ring.” Working with the industry, raising the profile of the area, doing the marketing, visible on social media, joining all the various networks, and then seeking out leads for and developing new business. • Film and Locations Co-Ordinator: An administratively focused role: collating information, importing and managing data, dealing with permits and licences etc, preferably with strong connections to the respective Council departments (licensing, traffic, etc) • Draft job descriptions for these two roles are included at Appendix 3. Budget Budget for Liverpool Film Office is still only £120k per annum for a staff of 10, only three of whom are permanent. Staff overheads leave an operating budget of only around £10k, but that is used to generate £100k income.  “For every pound the local authority spends on our service, I generate 10 back.” • Permits generate £10k per annum • The Film Office recharges internal departments a 10% management fee for any business attracted to council-owned locations, or land or assets, highways, parking, parks. In return, the Film Office manages all of that business internally on their behalf.  • The client benefits from a single point of contact (rather than having to coordinate enquiries across several departments) and gets a single invoice. 

[PAGE 6]
 
 4 • Good for client management: Film Office has a central record of all transactions for credit control. • Good for other departments who don’t have capacity to deal with those requests. • Liverpool Film Office has a similar relationship with Peel (big landowner) and around twenty other privately owned assets, (buildings, locations, unit parking) and can use that to cap prices.  • Safety (both public safety and the safety of crew members and assets whilst on location) is a factor – local knowledge essential. • Production location managers are able to budget quickly and accurately for a shoot which may encompass a range of city centre and other locations.  Local authorities need to support and champion the role of the Film Office in order to benefit fully: • Coordination requires political support in order for other departments to understand the need to prioritise and be responsive to requests (eg, to close a road for filming).  • Internal departments need to be aware and prepared – when an enquiry comes in, the Film Office needs a straight “yes or no”. • Film Office will need to reconcile different accounting protocols. • Inexperienced departments might need a bit of mentoring from a neighbouring authority.   Interoperability with other agencies You need your internal network first.  • Internal networks within the council: traffic, licensing, parks etc • “Blue light’ services: police, fire brigade, ambulance service – not just for permits or to have fire trucks on standby for pyrotechnics, etc, but to let them know where you will be filming (eg, if you have actors in character as police officers, the police need to know where they will be!) • St John’s Ambulance • Someone who knows what “gems” exist across Derby and Derbyshire: private properties, National Trust, English Heritage, assets owned by the local authority. (Case study from Liverpool: Croxteth Hall in Liverpool generates more revenue than Knowsley Hall, which is privately owned, because the local authority can be much more relaxed about what can go on within its own premises than in a stately home.) • Other assets, including empty schools can be used as a production base – information on those assets is invaluable, as you need a package in place which can meet the production’s needs, rather than a single location. • Network Rail and CRT – both have assets, in terms of locations and facilities. • Wider supply chain: vehicle hire, catering, builders’ merchants, hotels, security, taxi firms, cleaners, florists – but they also need to see the value of the “package” that you are putting together to further leverage their contribution.  

[PAGE 7]
 
 5 Skills development  Skills and talent development are accelerated when a place can demonstrate both demand and access to industry. Whilst further and education providers can choose to prioritise creative media courses as part of “business as usual”, the strength of demand for those courses will be enhanced by awareness of local employment opportunities.  Training has to convert into jobs. It is difficult to make a business case for providing additional public support for vocational training opportunities in advance of investment, because then there are no jobs for trainees to go on to. You need the volume of production, or a network of independent local production companies to work with you to provide that (including more local work on commercials and video shoots) to present consistent demand. Without that, there is a risk that providing training will increase “leakage” of local talent to areas with greater demand for those skills.  Also, you need industry professionals to deliver continuing professional development (CPD). Trainees need mentors, and someone needs to recruit and coordinate those mentors. It helps to have a network of producers, talent and crew to share awareness of opportunities to which the trainees can be introduced in order to catalyse local demand and benefit. Other factors come into play which may have particularly impact in rural areas or those with poor public transport links. You need to consider logistics of getting trainees who don’t have their own transport on set – times of public transport services and remote locations, or those not on a main railway line, can present real constraints. This raises further issues around social equity and inclusion.  Skills development, then, is as much about building sector capacity and contacts as provision of training. You need to plan for a different level of support and resources.  Building demand is made easier by the introduction of ever more stringent quotas for local content and diversity.  • Any producer wishing to benefit from a range of public support, from commissioning from one of the Public Service Broadcasters to access to tax relief credits, will need to demonstrate their commitment to diversity and inclusion. • Best value, diversity, inclusion, social value now form part of the procurement policy of every local authority Even in areas where there is a good level of provision (eg, Yorkshire, where Screen Yorkshire manages delivery of targeted training for diverse and excluded people aged 18-30) most film offices will do “boot camp” training – introduction to film jargon/ learn how to drive/being on set, Covid safety etc – to ensure that new entrants are “work ready’. Unmet skills demand is often greatest in “ancillary” roles, which are nonetheless essential to be able to put together a package for local production. This includes: • Production accountants – a chronic shortage has existed for over a decade, and is getting worse • Hair and make-up – a great opportunity for local businesses to diversify and for new entrants • Location managers • Craft skills – carpenters, painters, electricians – which again provides opportunities to distribute economic benefits of production more equitably and to provide training opportunities for new entrants  

[PAGE 8]
 
 6 Sector support  Any ambition to develop Derby and Derbyshire as a cluster of national and international importance will need other key elements.  1. Support from Creative UK. It supports over 30 Film Offices across the country, has access to resource, research and is often the first point of call for enquiries – but requires that the Film Office offers a free service. 2. Mentoring, knowledge exchange and support from other places with more established offices. Liverpool Film Office and Screen Yorkshire contributed to this study.  3. Sector support. Both in places where growth has been catalysed by a single significant inward investment (eg, Northern Ireland/Game of Thrones, Yorkshire/Channel 4, Greater Manchester/MediaCityUK, Cardiff/BBC Drama), in places with an established commissioning “prime” (Bristol/BBC Natural History Unit, Glasgow/BBC) and in other areas which have invested on the back of increased demand for location shooting (of which Liverpool is the prime example), there will be increasing demand for:  • Investment support – access to grant and equity funding both to provide what is often the final element of finance for inbound productions and to stimulate development of new IP by local producers and writers. • Studios and production facilities. This enables Film Offices to pitch for their area to become the production base, rather than a location, and in the process to capture a far larger share of the total production budget and catalyse far greater opportunities for jobs growth. • Skills and talent development – both to meet demand for cast and crew and to increase capacity amongst writers, producers, directors and production companies.  The ability to offer those additional forms of support brings greater leverage to the local offer – eg, Liverpool Film Fund requires agreement on the proportion of local crew in senior as well as craft grades and a specific number of new entrant and trainee opportunities as well as an equity position aligned to that of other investors. Financial return Sustainability and growth are predicted on generating income, which can then be reinvested into providing different services and leveraging further investments.  Liverpool Film Office provides a useful model on three levels: • The ability to generate commercial revenue from provision of council services and “packaging” those alongside offers from the private sector • Indirect benefits in the form of jobs and GVA  • Direct return on investment from the Liverpool Film Fund Financial support for production, in the form of the £2m Liverpool Film Fund from Liverpool City Region Combined Authority, has produced a massive multiplier on all three. • Liverpool Film Office now supports production across all six boroughs of the Combined Authority area. Liverpool City Council alone generated £10k+ from direct income from permits.  • The Film Office supports 1,200 film days per year, with a value to the local economy between £22k and £35k per day. Interim evaluation of the Film Fund (2021) 

[PAGE 9]
 
 7 demonstrated a £12m return on the initial £2m investment in jobs and GVA in the first two years of its operation, before any of the investment capital had been recouped. • By backing productions which may otherwise have struggled to find investment – “edgy” social dramas such as Help and The Responder – the Film Fund has been able to argue for a better “position” in the complex funding structures that sit behind every production. The commercial success of those shows suggests that the Fund stands to make a direct return on those investments of between £2-£4 for every £1 invested (in addition to the indirect benefits above) – but one that will take five years or more to realise. There are other models whereby local authorities can buy in services to speed mobilisation and minimise risk in an initial period, giving them the opportunity to provide more evidence for a business case for longer term investment. Many local authorities in London, Surrey and Sussex now procure film office off through Film Fixer, a commercial firm (https://filmfixer.co.uk/). Its model offers no overheads for the local authority but requires a share of revenue and profits. Missing evidence Despite repeated requests, we were unable to establish the current levels of demand for inward investment and sector development services provided by Creative UK during the research period. We suggest that this form part of the next steps in mobilising the film office. 

[PAGE 10]
 
 8 Survey results The online survey launched in June 2022 attracted 17 responses.  We provide the results here not as part of any quantitative evidence base but to show correlations between them and our research. A separate spreadsheet with full results is provided but the summary findings are: • All bar one response suggests that there is an appetite for a film office  • Inward investment is the main priority; place promotion less so • The relative importance of skills/sector development and financial sustainability increases over time • There is an expectation that the office will build capacity over time rather than being fixed at the outset   Prioritisation in the initial two-year period Most respondents thought that inward investment was very important, with sector development and financial sustainability close behind.  Responses on skills development and operational capacity were balanced between “very important” and “important’, suggesting that these elements could develop over time.  Prioritisation in year 5 Expectations of what the film office should have achieved by year 5 had risen – most markedly in the areas of financial sustainability and skills development.  Most areas saw an increase in areas viewed as “important” as opposed to “somewhat important” – with the polarisation of views of the one or two people who placed little priority on a film office of any kind becoming clearer.  

[PAGE 11]
 
 9 Figure 1 Prioritisation in first two years  
 
Inwardi…Operatio…Interope…Placepr…Skillsde…Sectord…Financial…0510
13%12%6%1
18%36%112%6%216%6%1126%126%0%10529%19%19%336%11059%1581%1341%35%7653%956%947%841%765%11
18%18%18%333Inward investment Operational capacity Inter-operability Place promotion Skills development Sector development Financial return 
Not Important 
Somewhat Important 
Important 
Very Important 

[PAGE 12]
 
 10 Figure 2 Prioritisation by year five 
 
02468101214
212%6%1212%
0%06%6%11212%6%6%116%0%100%06%6%1118%3424%29%5635%29%518%3424%1271%65%1153%953%965%111271%65%11
Inward investment Operational capacity Inter-operability Place promotion Skills development Sector development Financial return 
Not Important 
Somewhat Important 
Important 
Very Important 

[PAGE 13]
 
 11 Other priorities identified through consultationRespondents had additional recommendations: Capacity building Developing relationships with partners/investors who may provide funding opportunities to help develop facilities linked to filming in Derbyshire, eg. sounds stages, edit suites. Establishing a network of partners that will help improve opportunities for filming in the county, not just locations, but also facilities, buildings, build spaces, warehouses, parking, accommodation, catering, etc. Support infrastructure i.e. great hotels for casts and crews.  High quality customer service everywhere so casts and crews want to stay here. Crew database across all necessary functions and production facilities. Marketing and promotion Searchable locations catalogue for the region including a locations manager to support producers. Equality, diversity and inclusion Generating careers aspiration for the young people of Derby/Derbyshire. You can't be what you can't see. Interaction with Schools/ Colleges & Uni to develop home grown talent within the industry and to promote social mobility and inclusion. Interoperability and financial sustainability Important not to duplicate or add another layer of communication but complement existing functions. Must be self-financing or it will be another function that is not effectively resourced and will hence underperform. We need to take note of what can be done now to make an office financially viable before we commit to additional costs.  Sector development Working with existing film companies who have previously filmed in the area and speaking to them about how best they can support them. What would be helpful, how the collaborate and what they can do to make the most out of the fact that companies are choosing to film in and around Derbyshire. It's not just about coming in and setting up new talent and companies but also about nurturing and supporting companies that already do this. Wider scope Film and television does not directly benefit the Video Games companies in the city. However, if screen is to include this (very active and successful) local industry then it must not be forgotten. We would prefer a wider scope to be sure this communicated more around creatives and digital technologies.   

[PAGE 14]
 
 12 Recommendations 1. Derby and Derbyshire should establish a joint film office. 2. Its immediate priority should be on attracting inward investment: marketing Derby and Derbyshire as a location within the film and television industry, establishing a crew and services database and coordinating relevant licences and permits for filming with the respective local authorities. 3. The City and County Councils should establish an MOU with district councils and the National Park authority to allow the Film Office to act as agent for all necessary licenses, permits and permissions for filming in Derby and Derbyshire. 4. The Film Office should focus on investment in and development of the screen sector (including film, television, animation, post-production and VFX) but develop relationships with other regional and national agencies, both those with specific remits for games and digital content and those with wider cultural and creative industries briefs, to support creative industries across Derby and Derbyshire. 5. The Film Office should work with other agencies to support sector development, skills and training. This should include: a. Working with universities, colleges, LEP, local authority skills and business support teams and other agencies to signpost existing relevant education and professional development offers in Derby, Derbyshire and surrounding areas b. Working with inbound productions and local production companies to identify work placement and internship opportunities c. Working with Creative UK to identify potential investment in local production companies for development of new IP, business development and production 6. The Film Office should have two FTE roles at inception:  a. Film and Locations Officer, who will manage the Film Office and have primary responsibility for its development b. Film and Locations Officer, who will provide day-to-day support for inward investment enquiries and coordination with relevant agencies to facilitate location filming  

[PAGE 15]
 
 13 Next Steps 1. Feed back findings to survey respondents. 2. Contact those respondents who were keen to be consulted on the outcomes to invite their response to the findings and recommendations of the feasibility study (possibly by means of a round table meeting or “World Café” event) 3. Press Creative UK for data and evidence of demand for inward investment and existing service levels to Derby and Derbyshire. 4. Map existing education and training provision in relevant subject and vocational areas in Derby, Derbyshire and neighbouring regions. 5. Establish whether one or other local authority will be accountable for expenditure and employment of staff. 6. Establish Film Office location (this may be an outcome of further consultation following presentation of the feasibility study). 7. Confirm delegated responsibilities for operational expenditure (so that the Film and Locations Officer has an operating budget). 8. Grade job roles and advertise for the positions.    

[PAGE 16]
 
 14 Appendix 1: Respondents All 17 respondents wished to be informed of the outcome of the survey and 14 were interested in being contacted to get their more detailed views on the proposal. Table 1 Respondents Name Organisation Job role Contact? Email address Rebecca Fallow Chatsworth PR & Film Executive Yes rebecca.fallow@chatsworth.org Sally Ambrose Chatsworth House Head of Brand, Communications & Audiences Yes sally.ambrose@chatsworth.org Dr Matthew Hall Capital West Productions Ltd. Screenwriter / Exec Producer / Company Director Yes matthewroberthall7@gmail.com Julia Dowding South Derbyshire District Council Economic Development Officer (Place) Yes julia.dowding@southderbyshire.gov.uk Kirstin Sykes North East Derbyshire District Council Tourism Officer Yes kirstin.sykes@ne-derbyshire.gov.uk Lindsay Rae Marketing Peak District & Derbyshire Deputy Director and Head of Industry Engagement Yes lindsay.rae@marketingpdd.com Kate Martin Derby College DP Yes kate.martin@derby-college.ac.uk Denise Edwards National Trust, Hardwick Hall General Manager Yes denise.edwards@nationaltrust.org.uk Chris Fridlington Bolsover District Council Assistant Director Yes chris.fridlington@bolsover.gov.uk Luke Earle Tactile Games UK Narrative Designer Yes lukeearle414@googlemail.com 

[PAGE 17]
 
 15 Amy Burton Marketing Derby Inward Investment Executive Yes amy.burton@marketingderby.co.uk Adam Marsh QUAD Film And Cinema Manager Yes ajmarsh76@gmail.com  Stella Birks VisitDerby Visitor Services Development Manager Yes stella.birks@derby.gov.uk  Abbi Burns Darley Dance Productions Owner Yes darleydance@hotmail.co.uk  Steve Capes Derbyshire Dales District Council  No steve.capes@derbyshiredales.gov.uk  Lynne Hollingsworth Freelance Artists and Designer No info@hdart.co.uk  Donna EMBAA Artistic Director No donna@embaa.co.uk     

[PAGE 18]
 
 16 Appendix 2: Liverpool Film Office’s prioritisation In confidence, and not to be shared with other Council officers or stakeholders, we share with you the response to the prioritisation questions from Lynn Saunders of Liverpool Film Office.  FILM OFFICE FUNCTION  IMPORTANCE AT START ( First 2 years)  IMPORTANCE BY YR 5  THOUGHTS/NOTES 1. Inward investment   10 10 Depends if the initiative is an economic one (to drive inward investment into the county council) or a cultural one (about place/attracting visitors) – difficult to do both from the onset. My experience has always been the first. 2. Operational capacity – people to deliver   10 10 At least 2 people full time permanent with an annual operation budget of £100k to cover salaries, overheads and a small budget for activity/marketing/resources. My film office service was commercialised 5 years ago and is now cost neutral. 3. Interoperability with other agencies – including setting up new networks etc to make the information flow easier 9 8   4. Place promotion   5 8   5. Skills development – including access to the industry and development of diverse talent   4 8 Again, needs loads of revenue and evidence of an existing skills base or access to industry/ production hubs. Pointless developing this strategy if there’s no jobs for them to go to.  This is my priority this year but that’s after years of building 

[PAGE 19]
 
 17 capacity, 2 studios and a fund to directly influence local employment.  Needs content. 6. Sector support/investment and development of indigenous film product   2 6 Again same above.  Is this initiative about nurturing new talent or attracting high value itinerant production to film in the region?  A new film office won’t be able to do this from the get to as it needs access to revenue/grant funding.    

[PAGE 20]
 
 18 Appendix 3: Job descriptions Film and Locations Officer     JOB DESCRIPTION   Film and Locations Officer – Peak District and Derbyshire       1.  JOB PURPOSE:    • To make Derby and Derbyshire a great location for filming and production by developing and managing a new high-quality Film Office service which will promote filming in the region for photography, film and production companies, ensuring the safe and effective delivery of any shoot.   • To develop, manage and liaise with a network of contacts and organisations to support the growth of filming activities in the region.  • To act as the responsible point of contact for all filming activities in public areas, parks, highways, council and other properties and managing the delivery of a co-ordinated service which handles all aspects of planning for shoots; from application through to delivery, ensuring all relevant approvals, permissions and consents are in place.   • To maximise the benefits of filming to the economy and minimise disruption to residents and businesses in Derby and Derbyshire through clear communications and consultation.  

[PAGE 21]
 
 19 • Manage the income for all aspects of filming, identifying - where possible - how to maximise commercial and partnership opportunities associated with filming activities to increase financial and reputational benefits for Derby and Derbyshire.        2.  MAIN DUTIES:    • Working with a range of partner agencies including police, Marketing Peak District, Derby City Council, Derbyshire Country Council and other district authority staff to manage and deliver effective consultation and communication with key stakeholders to maximise filming and production activities in the region and to  minimise disruption to local communities, businesses and residents.  • Act as a knowledgeable ambassador of the region’s portfolio, consistently promoting its full-service offering, through confidently engaging in and responding to enquiries, increasing leads, conversions and ultimately, profitable sales.  • Grow film production facilitation to deliver increased income or expenditure savings, maximise revenue in line with targets and to ensure effective budgetary management.    • Develop and grow new Production Tracking, Contacts and Locations databases to accurately record, and track all data on filming and production activity in the region.   • Grow a bespoke permit system working effectively with all stakeholders to develop a streamlined process.   • Maximise the benefit of filming across the city and county through promotion of famous film locations and the region’s film offer, including generating content via dedicated social media platforms.  

[PAGE 22]
 
 20 • Provide best practice advice and guidance to filmmakers and production companies, and to Council colleagues, to help others to develop their knowledge and expertise to ensure safe and successful film production management in the region.   • Manage the collation of information for reports to the respective local and planning authorities on all matters relating to filming, including strategic guidance for planning and management, statistics, service performance and budgetary monitoring purposes. Preparing reports on progress, including the identification of the added value secured through the activities of the Film Office.    • Keep up to date on all licensing, health and safety, and other filming legislative requirements, and comply with relevant legal, regulatory, policy and procedural standards.   • Liaise with Heads of Marketing and Communications of the respective authorities to ensure appropriate ongoing promotion of the region and the locations database.  • Be flexible with evening and weekend work, as and when required.     Key Competencies ü Experience of dealing with filming companies, location managers and other media  ü Strong communications and stakeholder management skills  ü Knowledge of Derby and Derbyshire region ü Ability to manage priorities and work to deadlines  ü Ability to work across a variety of different subject disciplines.   ü Experience in production liaison ü Good level of contacts within the film & TV industry  ü Good communication and negotiation skills 

[PAGE 23]
 
 21 ü Ability to build contacts and establish new relationships with key liaison contacts ü Ability to respect confidentiality of information ü Ability to travel and work evenings and weekends (as and when required) ü Good standard of IT knowledge/skills      (IF APPROPRIATE)     Quote figures which give a picture of the job as follows:    (a) Annual budgetary amounts with which the job is either directly or indirectly concerned  Income Targets for Filming: £xxxxx [directly concerned]    (b) Any other statistics relating to the work  Annual key performance indicators on number of filming enquiries, enquiries converted into income, and engagement with dedicated social media 

[PAGE 24]
 
 22 Film and Locations Co-Ordinator/Assistant        1.  JOB PURPOSE:     • To make the Derby and Derbyshire region a great location for filming and production by providing comprehensive support to the Film Officer who will be managing and liaising with a network of contacts and organisations to support the growth of filming activities in the region.   • To assist the Film Officer in all aspects of film liaisons as well as providing an administrative, research, financial and IT support service to this new Unit.         2.       MAIN DUTIES:    • Assist the Film Officer to grow a first-class production liaison service for Derby and Derbyshire and to be one of the first points of contact for all filming enquiries/applications.   • Assist the Film Officer in providing a seamless service of support to anyone considering filming in the region, from initial contact right through to date of completion by:    

[PAGE 25]
 
 23 • Timely and accurate recording, tracking and maintenance of all data on the Production Tracking, Contacts and Locations Databases.   • Act as a point of contact for locations support, providing information, advice and guidance as required including locations support and identifying suitable locations to match production briefs as and when required. • Track all production enquiries, filming applications, productions shot, filming days and economic generated impact for the region using the approved industry database (MovieSite).  • Seek and act upon customer feedback, and ensure all complaints and queries are dealt with in a professional and timely fashion and escalate to managers accordingly if a resolution is not found.  • Manage the co-ordination and planning of filming and photography in public spaces: from application through to planning and delivery, advising on the suitability and availability of locations, relevant health and safety directives, Council guidelines and policies.  • Effectively operate the bespoke permit system to facilitate film & TV production applications and raise appropriate revenue.  • Research potential private and public locations and coordinate targeted outreach to encourage new registrations • Support the development and cleansing of a comprehensive database for film resources, locations, general contacts and other information of use to filmmakers and ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) • Keep up to date on all licensing, health and safety, and other filming legislative requirements, and comply with relevant legal, regulatory, policy and procedural standards.  • Attend and assist in exhibitions, workshops, premieres and other events as and when required. • Be flexible with evening and weekend work, as and when required.  Key Competencies  • Confident and personable phone manner and ability to communicate clearly and effectively with a wide range of partners and organisations • Knowledge of the Derby and Derbyshire region • Experience in production liaison 

[PAGE 26]
 
 24 • Contacts within the film & TV industry  • Good communication and negotiation skills • Excellent customer service skills  • Ability to manage priorities and work to deadlines  • Strong attention to detail and deadlines • Demonstrable track record of working as part of a team as well as individually under own initiative in fast-paced environment • Ability to respect confidentiality of information • Ability to travel and work evenings and weekends (as and when required) • Good standard of IT knowledge/skills Desirable:  • Knowledge of polices regarding the use of public spaces both highway and private land for filming use                

[PAGE 27]
 
 25   