DRAFT
Creative Industries
Fostering innovation and growth across the digital economy
April 2012


1	Introduction

This document seeks to inform discussions regarding the development of a new Catapult for the Connected Digital Economy (CDEC), as proposed by the Technology Strategy Board. Building on consultation undertaken across the creative sector, it highlights the major innovation challenges being faced by creative businesses and raises issues of direct relevance to the CDEC proposal. 

In particular, it focuses on the contribution that small creative businesses can make to the challenges being faced by businesses across the broader digital economy.  

2	Context

The UK’s creative industries have an established international reputation for driving innovation in product, services, content and experience. The 13 Creative Industries sectors, ranging from advertising to video games, are of significant economic size – 6.4%% of GVA, with over 182,000 companies accounting for 1.3 million employees and £17.3bn of exports annually. In addition, the creative industries are critical to the success of a number of inter-connected UK industries, such as manufacturing, leisure, tourism and, of course, digital technologies. If we were able to encourage closer collaboration between the UK’s content and technology sectors, the opportunity for growth in the ‘digital economy’ would be considerable. If sectors representing roughly 5% of GVA (ICT) were pulling together with another 6.4% of GVA, the outcome could be truly transformative.


3	The Challenge

Consultation undertaken by the Creative Industries KTN in 2011 suggested that the UK’s creative industries are at a crossroads: one path leading through convergence with technology to a digital economy of considerable size and international reputation, the other to the slow erosion of economic value and international standing as competitors from both established and emerging economies take the lead. This cross-roads is illustrated by the way innovation in content sectors such as music, publishing, video games and TV is being driven by our global competitors.  As the new global content delivery platforms (Apple's iPad and iTunes, Amazon's Kindle and Sony's PS3) are being created elsewhere, so the lion's share of the ensuing value chain will also be extracted elsewhere. At the same time, the essential production tools creative industries depend upon are almost all developed elsewhere.

Given this, urgent action is required to support innovation.  In particular we need to address the challenge of ensuring creative businesses take up, exploit and drive the relevant technologies coming through university research.  Equally, we need to create opportunities and environments where businesses from different sectors in the creative industries can come together to collaborate and innovate.





4	Convergence

Critical to the competitive future of the UK’s digital economy is the ways in which digital communication technologies can improve the functioning of the overall Creative Industries value chain, rather than simply the individual elements within it. From content creation and production, to distribution and consumption – what was once a clear and definable linear process is becoming converged, contested and dis-intermediated. 

This convergence is disrupting existing value chains, transforming traditional business models and creating new markets. Although in certain sectors, disintermediation and the dismantling of the value chain may well be an outcome, it is by no means inevitable. Rather, there is an opportunity in all of the value chain elements to use digital technologies to genuinely add value, so that the role of intermediaries (e.g. broadcasters, publishers, distributors) is an enriched one, acting much more than simply as a gateway-keeper or route to market.

This could be done, for example, by:

Accelerating and/or bypassing certain elements of the chain, speeding up the time it takes new products and services to come to market
Encouraging collaboration, joint research and commercial partnerships between businesses and other organisations in different elements of the chain
Building greater feedback mechanisms into the chain, so that information can flow more fully and efficiently in both directions, enabling products and services to be better refined and improved in response to market demand
Through the development of new business models and revenue sharing agreements and technologies, enabling additional and ongoing income to be earned across the value chain through a more sophisticated and data-embedded product/service.
 

5	Innovation and the Creative Industries

There is no agreed model of innovation for the creative industries. Rather, it is a sector characterized by a wide variety of intensely creative activities, from music composition to industrial design to video games production. Unlike other knowledge economy sectors, innovation processes in the creative industries do not readily lend themselves to formalized definition or measurement: concepts such as research and development spend or patent applications are of limited relevance. Innovation tends to be much more pervasive and also market-led: based around commissioning, responding to a creative brief or attempting to exploit a new commercial opportunity, trend, style or fashion.

Innovation in the sector also tends to be highly collaborative, with individuals and small businesses with particular expertise coming together to work on projects – often within and across informal networks. Again, unlike other sectors, such partnerships are often relatively informal. Businesses often work in a non-exclusive manner, collaborating on a project-by-project basis as and when it suits, rather than entering into long-term arrangements based around licensing, co-investment or complex commercial contracts.   


 
6	How the CDEC can foster innovation in the creative and digital economy

As with the other Catapults, the CDEC is intended to drive sustained economic growth, with substantial public and private investment to encourage innovations and the development of new products and services. However, it is vital that the CDEC is shaped around the particular characteristics of the creative sector described above, rather than simply reflecting the standard innovation models more usually associated with the science and technology sector.  

Challenges facing creative and digital economy [more needed….]:
Fast pace of economy
Need for new apps and services
Better understanding of consumer
Faster response times
Need for differentiation etc...






This has the following implications:

A strong emphasis on encouraging collaboration between businesses, entrepreneurs, universities and other research institutes. This should include collaborations across the creative industries, but also across the respective value chains.

Provide a dedicated space for showcasing and promotion. Creative businesses need to get their products and services to market quickly, and this requires access and profile with the stages of the value chain that can enable this. Opportunities to showcase and to develop relationships with investors, agents, distributors, retailersetc are critically important.

Provide both ‘the street’ and ‘the lab’ – creative professionals and businesses innovate by drawing on a wide range of cultural phenomena, emerging trends and creative styles. The CDEC must remain closely embedded to this – the campus or science park environment will not allow innovation to flourish.

Although ICT is a key driver of change for the creative industries, innovation is market-led rather than technology-led. As such, the principal ‘innovation challenges’ are around business models, distribution and new routes to market. The CDEC should therefore provide easy access to the gatekeepers and the consumer (including market intelligence) so as to inform and enable the process of innovation.

Consumers respond emotively, and the success of new digital technology products is dependent on creative expertise to embed user-need in the design process, and to mediate between consumers and technology suppliers. It is therefore vital that CDEC provides a forum for technologists and a range of creative professionals (artists, designers, writers etc) to come together, to address the ‘two cultures’ challenge and to experiment and test new products.

Small creative businesses will not fully participate in the CDEC unless it is a ‘two-way street’. They are not there to simply sell their services to large technology companies, but also to themselves benefit and learn.

There are any number of technological developments that are currently impacting across the different creative industries and spanning the value chain, from 3-D production tools to mobile commerce systems. It is important that the CDEC does not become narrowly focused around a particular technology, platform or provider.









