ELFC Action Plan
The action plan combines measures to address structural barriers to growth and coordination failures within East London’s fashion sector with steps to increase knowledge exchange between fashion businesses, investors and other technology, creative and business service sectors. These will harness London’s capacity as the UK’s knowledge and technology capital to its global reputation for excellence in fashion design and creativity.
An SPV, the East London Fashion Cluster (ELFC), will represent businesses from every sub-sector of fashion. The SPV will be a separate entity supported by an industry-led board of advocates. It will be responsible for coordinating information flows and steering a programme of sector specialist interventions tailored to meet the needs of fashion businesses. ELFC start-up activity will include further consultation on proposed interventions to:
Integrate a fashion skills framework within the Skills for Londoners strategy
Increase the supply of affordable workspace in cooperation with public sector, private sector developers and community-led initiatives
Provide specialist equity funding to link investors with designers and tech entrepreneurs
Establish a fashion tech hub at the heart of the new East London fashion quarter
Proposed interventions
East London Fashion Cluster
Lead Partner: UAL and GLA
Wider partners: BFC, UKFT, Fashioning Poplar
The SPV will be a separate entity with an industry-led board, representing businesses from every sub-sector of UK fashion. In its first year, ELFC will work in partnership with industry, education and local authorities to deliver:
Consultation on the feasibility of ELFC and areas of focus
Development of 10-year business plan for ELFC beyond the consultation phase
Development of a physical hub for ELFC in East London
Launch of online community
Launch of programme of events, hacks, webinars
Formal launch of the Cluster, 10-year plan and short-term priorities that have emerged from the consultation.
The vision and mission for the SPV are expressed on the back cover of this document.
Fashion Skills for Londoners Framework
Lead Partner: Greater London Authority (interim); UKFT
Wider Partners: UAL, LLDC and BFC
ELFC will pilot the development in East London of a Skills Framework identifying key skills and training gaps (Levels 1-4) across the fashion sector pipeline, from craft and technical skills through executive and management capabilities.  This will include:
An assessment of skills demand both for shortages (pipeline) and gaps (in current workforce) across fashion manufacturing – including craft, technical and digital skills related to fashion manufacture, design and garment technology would be used to identify where additional qualifications, courses, modules and training are required. 
Appraisal of existing skills provision (careers guidance, courses, modules, facilities, continuing professional development and providers).
Business support and mentoring in management skills such as cashflow projection, product costing and buying, and support for industry compliance, with a related work stream of training and funding (in the form of loans) to existing and start up manufacturers to enable compliance with ethical production standards (Fast Forward / SMETA  Audits).
Outcomes
Inform Creative Industry Skills section of the Mayor’s ‘Skills for Londoners Strategy’ being developed throughout 2017- a city-wide strategic approach to ensuring all Londoners and London businesses can access the skills they need to succeed.
Explore potential to expand delivery across London through existing relationships with FE providers in other parts of the capital.

Fashion Workspace Alliance

Lead partners: London Legacy Development Corporation Poplar HARCA, BFC: Fashion Spaces
Wider partners: GLA, CED institutions and stakeholders, local boroughs, landowners, developers, workspace providers & fashion industry experts and corporates
A brokerage ‘service’ to connect local authorities, developers and fashion businesses to a range of workspace in East London. The ‘coordination’ service would consist of:
A light-touch digital tool/platform for coordinating pipeline of demand and matching those seeking space with those who have it (developers, boroughs) or want to broker it.
A policy toolkit for local authorities to enable a rapid response both to threats of displacement of existing commercial premises and opportunities for new capital funding, including model Section 106 agreements and templates.
Signposting co-investment funding opportunities for public-private development 
Outcomes: 
Clearer pipeline linking demand with supply, robust stock of appropriate, new, and refurbished workspace on long tenures to ensure predictable supply of workspace for fashion businesses.
Ongoing cross-borough exchange of knowledge and practice.

London Fashion Fund
Lead Partner: University of the Arts London

UAL’s planned equity fund aims to link investors with designers and tech entrepreneurs.  It will support fashion business locally, regionally and nationally at all stages of their development; it will help conceive, incorporate and accelerate businesses. A focus of   the fund will be to develop fashion entrepreneurship with an environmental and social conscience. It is expected that a significant proportion of the businesses supported by the LFF will be members of the East London Fashion Cluster.
Fashion Tech R&D Showcase
Lead Partner: University of the Arts London
Wider Partners: GLA, UKFT, CED institutions and stakeholders

At the physical epicentre of the East London Fashion Cluster will sit a showcasing space (or series of spaces, up to 7,500m2) shared between the institutions within the CED. 
The Fashion Tech R&D Showcase will build upon and create a new intensity of collaborative relationships across disciplines, institutions, and sectors around the research and development of new materials, products and platforms. 
The facility will contain the most advanced equipment for digital fabrication and printing, as well as wet and dry labs for the exploration and development of new sustainable materials and wearable technologies.
It will act as both a research laboratory and a showcase for emerging products and materials, providing a knowledge centre to facilitate links and exchange with wider UK fashion industry hubs.

Outcomes: 
Delivers on the original vision and ambition for the cluster to facilitate cross-institutional and cross-sectoral collaboration and collaborative learning. 
Accessible facilities to encourage partnership between designers, engineers, technologists and investors, leading to new product and IP development, such as wearable tech, fabric innovation and AR/VR applications for showcasing and retail.


[Back cover]

East London Fashion Cluster
Vision
The vision of ELFC is to accelerate fashion technology businesses in the context of a twenty-first century innovation quarter where fashion, technology, education and business meet, building on the foundations of organic growth.
Mission
ELFC’s purpose will be to drive the development of the innovation quarter to establish London as the world’s leading fashion tech city. In the first instance, its focus will be on networking, signposting, coordination and the delivery of member benefits, as well as advocacy and policy shaping. Over time, other functions will include promotion and thought leadership and the development of targeted programmes that can provide businesses with the support that they need at different stages of their growth.