===== ITT - INSTRUCTIONS TO TENDERERS (VA/CON/F26/33) =====
V&A’s impact on the creative industries

Instructions to Tenderers
September 2026

VA/CON/F26/33
Introduction
The V&A

The V&A is a family of museums dedicated to the power of creativity. Our mission is to
champion design and creativity in all its forms, advance cultural knowledge, and inspire
makers, creators and innovators everywhere. We share a 5,000-year-old story of
creativity through exhibitions, events, educational programmes, digital experiences,
conservation, research, and an ever-evolving national collection of over 2.8m objects
spanning every creative discipline.

Our legal name is “The Board of Trustees of the Victoria and Albert Museum” (the
“V&A”, also “we, “us” and “our”). We are a non-departmental public body of the
Department for Culture, Media and Sport, and a charity exempt from registration
under the Charities Act of 2011. We are governed by a Board of Trustees appointed by
the Prime Minister.

Project Context

We are seeking to appoint a supplier to conduct a study of the V&A’s impact on the UK’s
creative industries. For more information, please see the Brief which outlines the
requirements for the project.

The purpose of this work is to build a clear, evidence‑based understanding of how the
V&A supports the UK’s creative industries and where that support makes the greatest
difference.

The findings will help us make more informed decisions about where to focus our
efforts and tell a clear and confident story to creatives, partners, policy makers and
funders.

This document sets out information relating to the tender process.

The Contract

The Contract is for:

•    Impact research and evaluation services to assess the outcomes, additional value
     and unique contribution of our work to the UK’s creative industries.
•    The Services shall be provided on a fixed fee basis and must be inclusive of all
     expenses, disbursements, and other costs associated with meeting the V&A’s
     requirement.”
•    The Initial Term will be 5 months starting on the Service Commencement Date.




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                            2
The procurement process
Procurement process

The procurement process is a single stage process. This is an open process whereby
any supplier can respond.

Documentation

We are issuing the following documents:

1    The Brief

2    Appendices to the Brief: IT Security Policy, Data Processing Agreement, Vetting
     Process, Sustainable Supplier Charter

3    Pricing Schedule template

4    Forms to complete and return

5    The due diligence questionnaire

6    Terms & Conditions of Contract


These documents along with any clarifications or statements made by us before a
contract is entered into are collectively referred to as the “Invitation to Tender”,
“ITT” or the “Tender Pack”.

Completing and submitting a Tender

For your tender return you must submit the following information electronically via
Delta at http://www.delta-esourcing.com/respond/8345CWZ26P

1    Up to 5 comparable case studies, including a contact for each that is willing to give
     a reference. Maximum two pages total, regardless of the number of case studies.

2    Your proposal to deliver the services to meet all the deliverables set out in the
     Brief issued by the V&A, drawing on your experience
     We are looking for proposals that are collaborative and iterative in approach,
     describe assumptions and risks, and that draw on learnings from projects you
     have undertaken and others you have studied. Maximum three pages total.

3    Confirmation of your team and relevant experience and evaluation expertise of key
     personnel that you would allocate to the project

4    Confirmation of a fixed sum fee for the project (including breakdown of fee)
     inclusive of all expenses, disbursements, and other costs.




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                            3
     A proposed payment schedule against work stages and confirmation of day rates,
     but please note that the V&A cannot agree to make payment upfront and can only
     pay invoices for completed work

5    Completed Forms to complete and return document

6    A completed due diligence questionnaire

7    A statement of compliance with our Terms and Conditions of Contract.

Please make sure that you stick to maximum page limits where we have set them. When
evaluating, we won’t read past the page limit for fairness. Please submit proposals in A4
portrait, keep font size at no smaller than 11 pts, and ensure page margins are at least
2.5cm.

These documents once submitted along with any clarifications or statements made by
you before a contract is entered into are collectively referred to as a “Tender”.

Clarification

If you require any clarification from us, please contact us using the “Contact Buyer”
feature of the Delta Messaging Centre. You must not contact us or any of our advisors
in relation to this procurement exercise by any other means, unless we give you
express permission to do so.

Any clarification requests together with our response will be issued to all tenderers
where the response contains information that would be beneficial for all.

We’ve set a deadline of Wednesday 7th October for clarification questions to ensure
that we don’t release any new information late in the process. For this reason, if we
receive any clarification questions after the deadline we may not be able to answer
them.

Procurement programme

The closing date for the return of tenders is 10AM on Monday 19th October

Pitches from the highest scoring suppliers will be held on 2nd or 3rd November in person
at V&A South Kensington.

Guidance on completing your Tender

Please read the documentation thoroughly and then provide your response. Our
preference is that you submit your core response in A4 as a single document, but that
where there are charts, diagrams, images, or other data that are difficult to show in A4
in please attach these as separate appendices and reference them clearly.




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                           4
Please submit the information in the same order that we have requested it in the
Tender Return section above.

Please feel free to:

•    Include a one-page cover letter introducing your tender
•    Use examples to support your proposal
•    Apply your own brand, style, font, colour, etc. (as long as you stick to the
     guidelines of A4 portrait, keeping font size at no smaller than 11 pts, and ensuring
     page margins are at least 2.5cm)
•    Include relevant pictures, charts, diagrams.

Wherever signatures are required, electronic signatures are acceptable. All Tender
submissions, questions, clarifications and communications of any kind must be
submitted/conducted in English unless otherwise agreed.

Delta has a 200MB file size limit for any one file, but no limit of the number of files or the
total combined file size of all files.



Evaluation
Our evaluation of tenders will follow a two-stage process to determine the most
advantageous tender. As part of our evaluation, we may reject a tender that fails any
evaluation stage. Rejection means that the tender will not be considered any further for
the award of contract, will be excluded from the process and will not be evaluated in
subsequent stages.

Stage One – Basic Compliance Check

We will check that tenderers have provided all the required information. We will review
tenders against any pass/fail criteria and identify any tenders that have failed to meet
the minimum requirements or comply with the requirements of this tender pack. We
may request additional information to provide evidence of compliance.

We will exclude any supplier that we consider to be an Excluded Supplier or an
Excludable Supplier under the Procurement Act 2023. This broadly means that if a
supplier meets one of the grounds for exclusion and cannot provide evidence that the
circumstances are unlikely to re-occur, we will have to exclude them from the process

Stage Two – Evaluation of Tenders

We will evaluate tenders against the Award Criteria (see table below). The highest
scoring tender will be determined the most advantageous tender. For all criteria except
price, we’ll score each criterion sequentially in the order set out below. Any tender that
does not score a minimum of 6 for the criterion being scored will not be considered any




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                                5
further. This means that, for example, if you score less than 6 for Team, you will not be
scored for Proposal, Programme and Price.

    Criteria                                      Weighting

    Case studies of comparable work               20%

    Team, including:                              20%

       -    Relevant research and evaluation
            experience and expertise, including
            undertaking economic
            assessments in line with
            government guidance

       -    Sector knowledge

    Proposal, including:                          50%

       -    How you will collaborate with us

       -    How you will measure impact
            beyond traditional performance
            metrics - evidencing outcomes,
            additional value and our unique
            contribution to the UK’s creative
            industries

       -    Programme

    Price                                         10%

    Total                                         100%




Evaluation and Scoring Mechanism – Pass/Fail Questions

For any criteria listed as being evaluated on a Pass/Fail basis, a tenderer will be deemed
to have failed if:

•      It has not supplied the required information, or the information supplied is
       incomplete, incorrect or misleading.
•      It does not meet the minimum standards or conditions for participation.
•      It is unable to demonstrate economic and financial standing that is deemed
       acceptable in terms of exposing the V&A to risk when entering into a contract




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                               6
       (subject to no suitable parent company or other guarantee being offered as a
       means to mitigate such risk).

Evaluation and Scoring Mechanism – Weighted Criteria

Weighted criteria (with the exception of Price) will be scored a number between zero
and ten using the following scoring mechanism:

                                          Scoring Key
 No      Response                                Match to specification
                       No information provided, or information does not relate to the
        Absent         requirement;
   0
        response       We have no confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver based on the
                       response.
                       Information provided relates somewhat to the requirement but is too
        Very poor      poor for consideration;
   1
        response       We have no confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver based on the
                       response.
                       Information provided relates somewhat to the requirement but there
        Poor           is little evidence that the Tenderer can meet the requirement;
   2
        response       We have little confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver based on
                       the response.
                       Information provided relates somewhat to the requirement and
     Significantly
                       contains evidence that the Tenderer can partly meet the requirement;
   3 below
                       We have little confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver based on
     average
                       the response.
                       Information provided relates somewhat to the requirement and
     Below
                       contains evidence that the Tenderer can partly meet the requirement;
   4 average
                       We have some confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver based on
     response
                       the response.
                       Information provided relates to the requirement and contains
        Average        evidence that the Tenderer can meet the minimum requirement;
   5
        response       We have some confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver based on
                       the response.
                       Information provided relates to the requirement and contains
     Above             evidence that the Tenderer can meet the minimum requirement, and
   6 average           exceed the minimum requirement in some areas;
     response          We have confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver based on the
                       response.
                       Information provided relates to the requirement and contains
                       evidence that the Tenderer can meet the minimum requirement, and
        Good
   7                   exceed the minimum requirement in some areas that adds value;
        response
                       We have good confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver based on
                       the response.
                       Information provided relates to the requirement and contains
        Very good
   8                   evidence that the Tenderer can meet the minimum requirement,
        response
                       exceed the minimum requirement in many areas that adds value;




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                           7
                         We have great confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver and add
                         value based on the response.
                         Information provided relates to the requirement and contains
                         evidence that the Tenderer can meet the minimum requirement,
          Excellent
    9                    exceed the minimum requirement in most areas that adds value;
          response
                         We have significant confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver
                         above expectations and add value based on the response.
                         Information provided relates to the requirement and contains
                         evidence that the Tenderer exceeds the minimum requirements in all
          Outstanding
    10                   areas and add significant value;
          response
                         We have significant confidence in the Tenderer’s ability to deliver
                         above expectations and to greatly add value based on the response.

Each of the scores will be weighted using the weighting in the Award Criteria above
using the formula:

weighted score = (score out of 10 ÷ 10) x weighting

The V&A reserves the right to reject any Tender that scores below 50% for any one
qualitative criterion on the basis that it does not meet the minimum requirement.

Evaluation and Scoring Mechanism – Price

The Total Sums within the fixed price tenders shall be compared to each other, with the
lowest Total Sum receiving the full weighted price score and each other Total Sum
receiving a proportion of the score based on its relationship to the lowest Total Sum
using the formula:

weighted score = (lowest Total Sum ÷ Total Sum) * weighting



Conditions applying to this procurement
process
We reserve the right to:

•        Require a Tenderer to go through a due diligence process before confirming a
         contract award.
•        Reject any Tender that does not meet the minimum requirements regardless of
         the overall score.
•        Reject any tender with arithmetical errors or abnormally low tender sums, or
         return it to the tenderer for rectification.
•        Clarify and where needed for parity purposes, normalise tendered costs.
•        Cancel the project, the procurement, or the evaluation process at any stage.
•        Award all or part of the Services unless tenderers expressly state otherwise.




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                            8
•    Require a Tenderer to provide clarification or additional information in writing, and
     set a deadline for responses (usually two working days from the date of request).
•    Amend the terms, conditions, or requirements of the tender process.
•    Re-visit a Tenderer’s eligibility for participation at any point if the information
     provided by a Tenderer materially changes or if there are any changes to the
     consortium members or significant sub-contractors. Tenderers must notify the
     V&A if at any point there are any changes to the information supplied.
•    Amend the enclosed documents at any time prior to the deadline for receipt of
     Tenders. Where amendments are significant, the V&A may at its discretion extend
     the deadline for receipt of tenders.

All tenders must remain valid and open for acceptance by the Museum for 90 days from
the Tender submission date.

We regret that unless specified otherwise you will not be entitled to claim from the V&A
any costs or expenses which you may incur in the preparation and submission of your
tender, and any attendance for site visits and interviews during the tender process.

All information supplied to you must be treated in confidence and not disclosed to third
parties except insofar as this is necessary to obtain sureties or quotations for the
purposes of submitting the tender. All information supplied by you to by us will similarly
be treated in confidence, save where disclosure is required by law or where we have
declared that we will use an external evaluation panel member.

All submissions, questions, clarifications and communications of any kind must be
submitted/conducted in English and all pricing and other financial information shall be
provided in £ pounds sterling.

It is incumbent on tenderers to ensure that they have all the information required for
the preparation of their tenders and that they satisfy themselves about the information
and correct interpretation of terminology used in the tender documentation.
Tenderers must also ensure that they are fully conversant with the nature and extent of
the obligations to be accepted by them if their tender is accepted. Tenderers shall have
no claim whatsoever against the V&A in respect of the scope of the requirements being
different to that envisaged by the provider.

The V&A does not undertake to accept the lowest or any tender, and reserves the right
to accept the whole or any part of any tender, unless the tenderer expressly stipulates
otherwise.

The information provided in the tender pack is believed to be correct at the time of
issue. Neither the V&A, its advisors, nor any other awarding entities will accept any
liability in any circumstances for its accuracy, adequacy or completeness, nor will any
express or implied warranty be given. This exclusion extends to liability howsoever
arising in relation to any statement, opinion or conclusion contained in, or any omission




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                             9
from this tender pack and in respect of any other written or oral communication
transmitted (or otherwise made available) to any tenderer. No representations or
warranties are made in relation to these statements, opinions or conclusions. This
exclusion does not extend to any fraudulent misrepresentation made by, or on behalf
of, the V&A.

If a Tenderer proposes to enter into an Agreement with the V&A it must carry out its
own due diligence enquiries and rely only:

   •   on its own enquiries and judgement in relation to this procurement, including the
       preparation of its tender; and
   •   on the Terms and Conditions attached to this ITT, subject to the limitations and
       restrictions specified in it.

All tenderers are recommended to seek their own financial and legal advice.

Following the award of contract, debriefing will be available to tenderers on request.

In submitting your tender you confirm that you are willing to sign the contract
electronically using the V&A’s electronic signature system at www.signinghub.com.

Freedom of Information

The V&A is subject to the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 as
amended (the “FOIA”).

The V&A undertakes to hold confidential any information provided by you in your
Tender save where we are required to disclose it by law (such as noted in the section
below).

You are asked to consider if any of the information supplied by you in your tender
should not be disclosed because of its sensitivity. If this is the case, you should indicate
this in the FOIA schedule included in the Forms to complete and return document. We
will consult with your nominated contact about sensitive information before making a
decision on any Freedom of Information request received but ultimately the decision to
disclose will be ours.

Procurement Act 2023

We are subject to public procurement law, and under Section 87 of the Procurement
Act 2023 we are required to publish an award notice for contracts over £10,000 on a
Government portal.




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                             10
Disability Confident

The V&A is a Disability Confident employer and encourages all its suppliers,
contractors and partners to join the scheme. For more information, please visit:

https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/disability-confident-campaign




V&A Instructions to Tenderers                                                      11
===== BRIEF - UNDERSTANDING THE V&A'S IMPACT ON THE CREATIVE INDUSTRIES =====
                              Understanding the V&A’s impact on the
                              Creative Industries
                              Brief for suppliers – September 2026




Context
The V&A supports the creative industries in many ways: through access to and use of its
collection, both online and in-person; exhibitions; as a curator and storyteller; as a public
platform; as an employer and commissioner; as a convenor and advocate; and through skills
development and research.

We work with students, artists and makers, researchers, small studios, start‑ups, global
brands, local communities around our sites, universities, and governments and cultural
organisations in the UK and internationally.

This work has developed organically. As a result, we don’t have a clear view of:

   •   How our work translates into outcomes for creative practitioners, businesses and
       the wider creative industries

   •   Where our impact is strongest or most limited, and where the V&A makes the
       greatest additional difference

   •   What contribution the V&A makes that others do not, or cannot easily replicate

   •   Where focusing our resources would make the biggest difference

Our current evidence base is disparate, and largely focused on short-term evidence and
physical visits to the V&A. We want to understand the long-term impact of our work and the
many ways creatives access, use and engage with the V&A and its collections and our wider
impact on the sector.

Supporting the creative industries is central to the V&A’s founding mission and a core
priority in our Strategy for 2026-2030.




Purpose of this work
We want a partner to conduct a study of the V&A’s impact on the UK’s creative industries.
The purpose of this work is to build a clear, evidence‑based understanding of how the V&A
supports the UK’s creative industries and where that support makes the greatest
difference.

We want the study to:

   1. Help us make more informed decisions

Understand what works well, what works less well, and where impact is greatest

Focus resources on activity where the V&A can make the greatest additional contribution to
the UK’s creative industries

Develop the V&A’s value proposition to the creative industries

   2. Tell a clear and confident story

Provide a clear and compelling narrative about our role, impact and value, backed by
evidence and proof points, for creative practitioners, industry leaders, gatekeepers,
partners and policymakers

Use this to increase awareness and engagement with the V&A among the creative
community.



While developing an impact model is outside the scope of this work, we envisage the study as
a first step towards a future impact model and a more consistent approach to understanding
and measuring our impact over time.




Key questions
   1. How does the V&A support the creative industries, and through what activities,
      assets and relationships does it create value?

   2. How do creative practitioners engage with the V&A’s collection both in-person and
       online, and how does this add value to their creative practice?

   3. Where and how does the V&A demonstrably influence creative careers, practices or
      business trajectories over time?

   4. What impact does the V&A have on the wider creative ecosystem, beyond those it
      directly engages?

   5. Which types of support generate the strongest and weakest impact, and where does
       the V&A make the greatest additional difference, and for whom?




                                                                                            2
   6. What does the V&A contribute that is distinctive, difficult to replace or unlikely to
       happen without it?

   7. Where is effort or resource being invested with limited or unclear impact?

We recognise that some questions cannot be fully answered with existing data and expect
the appointed partner to identify evidence gaps and where further research is needed.



Scope and focus
   •   Primary focus: UK creative industries

   •   International activity included only where it clearly benefits UK careers, businesses,
       sector capacity or reputation

   •   Access to and use of the V&A’s collection as a resource for creative practice, online
       and in-person. This includes access via the online collection at vam.ac.uk and much
       broader use via our collections API

   •   All V&A sites: V&A South Kensington, V&A East Storehouse, V&A East Museum,
       Young V&A, V&A Wedgwood Collection and V&A Dundee

   •   We are focused on creatives who are over 16s with professional and/or academic
       involvement in the creative industries (working, studying, teaching)

   •   Emphasis on impact beyond traditional performance metrics, evidencing outcomes,
       additionality and the V&A’s distinctive contribution to the UK’s creative industries

   •   Deeper understanding of the impactful areas of activity is preferred over exhaustive
       reporting across all activities




Types and scales of impact we want to understand:
We are interested in impact at different scales:

Creative practitioners and businesses:

   •   Creative practice, experimentation and innovation

   •   Skills, confidence, careers and opportunities

   •   Business growth and financial impact

   •   Research and new knowledge




                                                                                                3
The wider creative industries

   •   Networks, partnerships and sector capacity

   •   Knowledge exchange, innovation and influence on wider creative practice

   •   Talent pipelines and opportunities to participate and succeed

   •   Economic impact

   •   Creative clusters, regional economies and aggregate economic contribution

   •   Visibility, reputation and influence of UK creative practice

Across these areas, we want to understand who benefits, the scale and longevity of impact,
regional reach and equity, additionality and the V&A’s distinctive contribution.




Approach
The work should:

   •   Clearly distinguish between activity, outputs and impact

   •   Combine quantitative and qualitative evidence

   •   Consider impact at different scales, from creative practitioners and businesses to
       the wider creative industries

The work should be informed by the UK Government’s Green Book guidelines and the
Cultural Heritage Capital Framework.

We are interested in approaches inspired by work such as the Institute of Innovation and
Public Purpose’s analysis of the BBC, which recognises public institutions as ecosystem
builders and looks beyond narrow, retrospective evaluation to understand broader and
longer-term effects. This may include combining direct measures (such as reach or
engagement) with evidence of change over time, including spillovers or shifts in behaviour or
practice.

We are interested in how this way of thinking can be applied to this brief in ways that are
appropriate to the V&A’s context and help us achieve the purpose of the work in this brief.




                                                                                              4
Outputs
   •   An impact study combining quantitative and qualitative evidence, including robust
       headline measures of economic impact where the evidence allows, alongside
       longitudinal insight

   •   Case studies showing where and how V&A support has made a material difference to
       creative careers, practices or businesses over time

   •   An evidence-backed impact narrative, with clear claims and proof points that can be
       used with creative practitioners, industry leaders, partners, funders and
       policymakers

   •   Identification of gaps and low-impact activity

   •   Clear, prioritised recommendations for future focus, redesign or reduction

This should include an interim findings presentation, and a final report, executive summary
and presentation.




What V&A can provide
   •   A programme manager

   •   As-is picture of how V&A supports the creative industries

   •   A researcher to collect additional data

   •   Access to internal expertise

   •   Introductions to creatives, where possible




What we need from an external partner (or partners)
   •   A clear framework, methodology and realistic approach to delivering the work within
       the available timeframe

   •   Recommendation of the appropriate period of analysis

   •   Identification of data gaps and practical ways to address them

   •   Analysis that turns evidence into clear, actionable insight




                                                                                              5
Who we’re looking for
We are not looking for a standard, single discipline evaluation. We welcome a partner (or
partners) who combine rigour with imagination, and who may blend:

   •   Economic or impact evaluation

   •   Social or behavioural research

   •   Creative or participatory methods, including storytelling

We’re looking for partner(s) who will be clear about where impact is strong, emerging or
limited - and why – and challenge assumptions constructively where the evidence points
elsewhere.

Partner(s) who are comfortable working with a wide range of stakeholders, including V&A
staff and creatives who have interacted with the V&A.

Partner(s) who will collaborate with us closely and will attend key meetings in-person at V&A
London sites.




Programme

Proposed deadline for deliverables – end of May 2027

Start date – Ideally December 2026, by the end of January 2027 at the latest

This should include:

   •   A kick-off workshop with the V&A to agree:

          o   the research questions

          o   the impacts we will be measuring

          o   the data sets the V&A researcher will collect (see Appendix for draft list)

          o   what the end deliverables will look like and the format they will be delivered in

   •   A period of time for the V&A researcher to collect the data

   •   Weekly check-ins

   •   Show and tells at key milestones

   •   Interim findings presentation April 2027, with final report at the end of May 2027



                                                                                              6
Team

Reporting to:

   •   Lizzie Hines – Creative Industries Programme Director

   •   Lindsey Brown – Creative Industries Programme Manager

Key stakeholders

   •   Tristram Hunt – Director of the V&A and Programme Sponsor

   •   Oliver Cox – Head of Academic Partnerships

   •   Sophie Rouse – Director of Audiences

   •   Meriel Royal – Audience Strategist

   •   Jane Ellis – Director of Finance Resources

   •   Chris Turner – Keeper of Art, Architecture, Photography and Design

   •   Elizabeth Glavin – Head of Learning and Digital Programmes

   •   Leanne Manfredi – National Programmes Lead




                                                                            7
Appendix: Initial evidence and data sets for discussion

  •   An outline of the V&A’s activities, services and programmes that support creatives
      and people exploring a creative career.
  •   The number of people who visit the V&A in person that are part of the creative
      industries, demographics, what sub sectors they are part of and their experiences,
      e.g. how inspiring it was.
  •   Number of people who use a service to access the collection that isn’t on display
      (For example: using study rooms, Order an Object or The National Art Library; people
      who have their work exhibited; people who have sold products through the V&A,
      people who have worked with the V&A on a project, initiative or prize such as Fashion
      in Motion, Illustration Awards)
  •   Use of the V&A’s collection digitally, including the online collection on vam.ac.uk and
      broader use via our collections API: who is using it, how they are using it, and what
      they are using it for, and evidence of its influence or value to creative practice
  •   Social media content that supports creatives and its reach and impact
  •   Accounts of people exploring a creative career using the collection, physically or
      digitally, and the impact that it’s had




                                                                                                8
===== CLARIFICATION Q&A ISSUE 1 (26/10/06) =====
                              V&A’s impact on the creative industries

                              Clarification Questions and Responses




We’ve received a number of clarification questions and consider that the answers are
beneficial to all tenderers. The questions (which have been anonymised or summarised,
where required) and our answers are set out in this document.



Issue 1 – 06 October 2026

 Ref   Q&A

 1     Question:

       Regarding ITT, The Contract, and Brief, Programme:

       the ITT gives an initial term of 5 months from the Service Commencement
       Date. The Brief gives a preferred start of December 2026 and a deliverables
       deadline of end of May 2027. Please confirm how the initial term relates to a
       December start, and whether an extension applies.

       Response:

       The ITT should say ‘The Initial Term will be 6 months from starting on the
       Service Commencement date’.

       However, the deadline for deliverables is end of May 2027. We’d ideally like a
       partner to start in December. The partner could start in January, but the
       deadline would remain the same.

 2     Question:

       Regarding ITT, Completing and submitting a Tender (item 3):

       is there a required format or length for the Team section (for example CVs),
       given that no page limit is stated?

       Response:

       No required format, but we suggest no more than 300 words for each team
       member.

 3     Question:

       Regarding PQQ, Notes for completion and Part 1B:
    where a tenderer names sub-consultants, can they be covered by a single
    composite PQQ response, or must each complete separate forms?

    Response:

    Single composite PQQ response

4   Question:

    Regarding Brief, Outputs:

    is a headline economic impact figure a minimum requirement, or is a qualified
    estimate acceptable where the available data does not support a robust one?

    Response:

    A qualified estimate is acceptable where the available data does not support a
    robust one.

    Please note that under ‘Outputs’, we’ve said “An impact study combining
    quantitative and qualitative evidence, including robust headline measures of
    economic impact where the evidence allows, alongside longitudinal insight”

5   Question:

    Regarding Brief, Approach:

    is there an expected balance between quantitative and qualitative effort?

    Response:

    No, a sufficient balance between quantitative and qualitative effort to cover
    the brief.

6   Question:

    Regarding Brief, Approach:

    (a) is the Green Book expected to be applied in full, or used as a guiding
    framework? (b) How should the Cultural Heritage Capital Framework be used
    (for example for valuation, or as a framing device)?

    Response:

    The partner should take the UK Government’s Green Book guidelines and the
    Cultural Heritage Capital Framework into consideration, but the partner’s
    focus is to demonstrate the types of impact we’ve outlined in the brief.

7   Question:




                                                                                     2
    Regarding Brief, Outputs:

    does the V&A have a minimum or expected number of qualitative interviews in
    mind?

    Response:

    I believe the output you’re referring to is “Case studies showing where and
    how V&A support has made a material difference to creative careers,
    practices or businesses over time

    We don’t have a minimum or expected number of qualitative interviews in mind
    to inform these case studies, but we need enough interviews / case studies to
    cover the breadth of the brief and inform ‘An evidence-backed impact
    narrative, with clear claims and proof points that can be used with creative
    practitioners, industry leaders, partners, funders and policymakers’

    Please note that we anticipate that V&A / the researcher we are hiring will
    conducting the interviews. The job advert for the researcher is here:

    https://vam.current-vacancies.com/Jobs/Advert/4336423

8   Question:

    Are participant incentives expected for interview participants?

    Response:

    We anticipate that V&A / the researcher we are hiring will conducting the
    interviews. The job advert for the researcher is included in our answer to q8
    above

9   Question:

    For each dataset listed, please indicate whether it currently exists, the period
    it covers, its format, and whether records can be linked.

    Response:

       •    An outline of the V&A’s activities, services and programmes that
            support creatives and people exploring a creative career. →This will
            exist by the start date.
       •    The number of people who visit the V&A in person that are part of the
            creative industries, demographics, what sub sectors they are part of
            and their experiences, e.g. how inspiring it was. → We have information
            relating to visitors from the creative industries in our exit surveys but
            the questions are asked differently across some of the sites. We will
            follow up with more information next week.



                                                                                        3
         •     Number of people who use a service to access the collection that isn’t
               on display (For example: using study rooms, Order an Object or The
               National Art Library; people who have their work exhibited; people who
               have sold products through the V&A, people who have worked with the
               V&A on a project, initiative or prize such as Fashion in Motion,
               Illustration Awards). → Order an Object data is readily available. We will
               follow up with more information next week. The others exist to varying
               degrees of readiness. We expect the researcher we are hiring to collect
               and sort out this data with guidance from the impact partner.
         •     Use of the V&A’s collection digitally, including the online collection on
               vam.ac.uk and broader use via our collections API: who is using it, how
               they are using it, and what they are using it for, and evidence of its
               influence or value to creative practice → We will follow up with more
               information next week.
         •     Social media content that supports creatives and its reach and impact.
               → We will follow up with more information next week.
         •     Accounts of people exploring a creative career using the collection,
               physically or digitally, and the impact that it’s had. →This data set does
               not exist yet.

10   Question:

     Regarding Brief, What V&A can provide:

     please confirm the V&A researcher's expected time commitment (days per
     week) and role in data collection.

     Response:

     The job advert for the researcher is here:

     https://vam.current-vacancies.com/Jobs/Advert/4336423

11   Question:

     Regarding Brief, Scope and focus:

     (a) what regional granularity is expected (nations, regions or local authority)?
     (b) Is comparable data available across all six sites, including V&A Dundee and
     the V&A Wedgwood Collection?

     Response:

     1       Nations and regions
     2       Exit survey data across our London sites is likely the only comparable set
             of data we have currently.




                                                                                            4
12   Question:

     Regarding: Section 1 (Case Studies of Comparable Work) and the Freedom of
     Information (FOIA) Schedule:

     The details of the relevant client case studies we'd like to submit are protected
     by NDAs. This creates a conflict with the FOIA, which seems to very broadly
     apply to all supplier proposal content if a FOIA request is granted by the V&A.
     What can the V&A team do to ensure confidential information provided by
     suppliers, as part of the tender process, is fully private and protected and
     used for the purposes of the internal procurement review only?

     Can bidders submit anonymised case study descriptions in Section 1 (e.g.,
     "Major UK Public Service Broadcaster" or "Global Enterprise Technology
     Manufacturer") where third-party NDAs prevent public naming and project
     details?

     Can client reference contact details be provided under a separate, restricted
     appendix solely for the evaluation panel's direct verification, or provided
     confidentially upon reaching the shortlisting/pitch stage, to ensure compliance
     with third-party NDAs and GDPR?

     Response:

     Where information is provided in confidence, we will always in the first
     instance withhold such information from any FOIA request under s41
     (information provided in confidence) and s43 (commercially sensitive
     information) of the act. However, The Freedom of Information Act is a law and
     we are not the sole arbiter of how it is applied. In an appeal situation we have
     no control over how its regulator (the Information Commissioner’s Office) or a
     court may interpret it. We therefore recommend that you seek your own legal
     advice as to whether you would be in breach of any other agreements by
     submitting confidential information.

      We suggest that where case study information is confidential, an anonymised
     case study should be submitted only if you are prepared to disclose the
     confidential information (at a minimum, case study organisation and referee)
     to us should we request it later in the process. Such disclosure would be under
     the protection of a non-disclosure agreement between our organisations in the
     form attached. If you are submitting anonymised information, please make
     sure that you give our evaluators enough information to assess. For example, if
     you do not name the client, describing the client, their size, and their sector
     will allow us to determine relevance. The opposite is also true.




                                                                                         5
