--- ppt/slides/slide1.xml ---
Our Year 2024
Logic chain
9 December 2022

--- ppt/slides/slide3.xml ---
Wakefield Corporate Plan (1)
Priorities
Places to be proud of
An economy that works for everyone
Better health and lives
Thriving children and families
A greener Wakefield district

--- ppt/slides/slide4.xml ---
Wakefield Corporate Plan (2)
Wakefield Economic Strategy
	
Successful businesses: Growth and Innovation in the Creative &amp; Digital Sector (NB: COVID resilience and recovery)
Successful people: 
Sustainable and inclusive communities; Connecting people in all communities to economic opportunity
Successful places: 
Destination Wakefield
Creative Wakefield Framework
Placemaking
Visitor Economy
Wellbeing and inclusion
Creative skills
Spaces and support

--- ppt/slides/slide5.xml ---
Insights
Cultural survey findings
Only 31% of residents thought they were “culturally active”
Although more than 3/5 residents agree that culture improves health &amp; wellbeing, is something the Council should invest in and improves quality of life, trend of residents supporting Council investment in increasing number of  opportunities is down
CDF evaluation
Events stimulate interest and employment opportunities in cultural sector; skills training offer demonstrates pathways, promoting inclusive growth
Higher levels of collaboration and co-production through Creative Wakefield network
Business resilience (post-COVID) and recovery

--- ppt/slides/slide6.xml ---
ACE
 
Let’s Create
Outcomes
Investment principles

--- ppt/slides/slide7.xml ---
WYCA Culture, Heritage &amp; Sport priorities
People
The impact and reach of WYCA investments across the region. 
The number of people engaging with culture, heritage and sport activity (including young people), and 
whether they reflect the diversity of our communities. 
Perceptions of our region’s culture, heritage and sport offer. 
Place
The number of people engaging with heritage activities and locations across the region, and whether they reflect the diversity of our communities. 
The number of volunteers in culture, heritage and sport. 
The level of culture, heritage and sport tourism in the region.
Skills
The number of people working in our creative industries, heritage and sport sectors, and whether they reflect the diversity of our communities. 
The increase in the number of people with protected characteristics working in these sectors.
The number of HE graduates taking up work in these sectors. 
The number of freelancers in these sectors. 
The number of training places made available for freelancers in these sectors. 
Perceptions of freelancers on the sustainability of careers in West Yorkshire.
 
Business
The level of inward investment into the region from the creative and sport sectors. 
The increase in creative industries, heritage and sports sector business growth and sustainability (
including start-ups)

--- ppt/slides/slide8.xml ---
Impacts
All
: additional footfall to reinforce COVID recovery for creative and hospitality businesses
Level 1
: core outputs as described in outline programme in Place Partnership EOI 
Level 2
: WYCA investment enables scope, scale and timely integration with wider region 
Level 3
 (stretch target): additional private sector investment and sponsorship

--- ppt/slides/slide9.xml ---
Legacy
1 year
Increase in awareness of Wakefield and West Yorkshire as a cultural destination
Cultural Survey measures increased engagement in Wakefield and support for investment in culture
Increased interest in Bradford CoC25 amongst residents and visitors to the region
Jobs safeguarded and created in creative and visitor economies
3 years
Measurable upward trend in visitor numbers to Wakefield and West Yorkshire
Upward trend of engagement in “BAU” events
Increase in private sector investment and sponsorship
Increase in number and value of ACE investments (NPOs, project grants, DYCP) in Wakefield
5 years
Continuation of (3)