


—
Creativeworks London

Toward an exploitation strategy for collaborative Arts & Humanities research

03 June 2016

BOP Consulting has undertaken an evaluation of the Creativeworks London programme

BOP Consulting is a specialist cultural and creative industries consultancy with extensive experience of developing strategies for commercial, educational and publicly funded bodies.
We recently undertook an evaluation of Creativeworks London, one of four Knowledge Exchange hubs funded by the AHRC. Our conclusions were that most of the projects were at too early a stage of development to register clear economic impacts; but that we were able to observe a range of transformations, from spin-out activity to increasing engagement of researchers in entrepreneurial activity, that we believe merit further investigation and, therefore, investment.
Research and interactions with businesses and researchers since the end of the funded projects has revealed considerable appetite to continue – which is not justified in every case by the economic outturn of the first round of funding. This paper looks to understand the reasons for this, and to articulate the case for continuing research.

A future strategy for Knowledge Exchange hubs?



This presentation aims to provide a number of scenarios that can be used to assess options for further development of the collaborative working methodologies explored through this and the other three KE Hubs. As well as looking at economic outturns and funding, we consider the wider impacts – positive and negative – of collaborative research engagements on both the businesses and post-docs involved. Although not all the inputs and outputs can be accurately attributed with a monetary value, there are clearly some costs and (dis)benefits for both parties. We explore these in the report.
Importantly, we address the difficulty of establishing a ‘counterfactual’ case for the effectiveness of arts& humanities research practice and collaboration in defining the outcomes of creative innovation.
In our conclusions, we aim to provide a number of scenarios that can be used to assess options for further development of the collaborative working methodologies explored through this and the other three KE Hubs.

Contents



The challenge for Universities in interactions with the Creative Economy
Findings from evaluation of Creativeworks London and Fusion CFA
Realising innovation – a conceptual view of the entrepreneur's journey
'Antidisciplinary' coproduction and talent development – the opportunity for Universities and researchers
Identifying the questions
Exploitation strategy - is there a business model for this?
Disruption cuts both ways – career risks for ECRs
Wider network impacts
What's it worth? – ROM estimates for further programmes
Recommendations and action plan




In the words of Jon Dovey, the challenge for University engagements with the creative
economy is,

– ‘To make an intervention over a period of time that makes a difference … not just one project…. You have to think about the overall network effect of what you are trying to do.’

(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qk9xN9e545s)




Evaluation of the research outcomes of Creativeworks identified three areas for further
investigation:

Whether knowledge exchange methods practised by arts & humanities researchers can influence the development of practice in other fields;
Whether arts & humanities researchers have themselves learned from and adapted their research design and practice to reflect successful methods deployed both in other academic disciplines and in businesses;
Whether there is any correlation between interdisciplinary (or ‘antidisciplinary’) approaches and more successful research and business outcomes.

The commercial results were more mixed – see following slide – and need careful interpretation on a systemic level before we jump to conclusions about the efficacy of individual project interventions.




The economic outputs of the different strands varied widely. Companies engaged through Creative Vouchers, Creative Entrepreneurs in Residence and Researcher In Residence schemes scored high onlevels of ‘spin out’ activity, but less well on economic impact.
Unsurprisingly, the recipients of Creative Fusion Awards (CFA) demonstrated much higher outputs in terms of jobs and GVAs. This reflects a number of factors:

CFA grants were made directly to businesses and were aligned with business support
outcomes, not research
The work represented a ‘go to market’ stage of ideas that had in most cases already passed through a ‘proof of concept’ stage, if not a prototype
The companies tended to be more mature than CV/CEIR/RIR beneficiaries

The ‘intermediate’ stage of development of iShed’s REACT hub – which had a very high hit rate of prototypes to projects – bears out this model of progression. We explore a potential framework for commercial exploitation further on in this presentation.




The discrepancy in short term economic impacts should not, however, be interpreted to suggest that business support grants are the way to secure future innovation. The immediate efficacy of CFA may mask ‘losses’ in the innovation system at other points:
We have no way to measure whether recipients of CFA awards may have accelerated the early stage development of successful projects through collaborative research
We cannot tell if engagement with the knowledge base at an earlier stage may have resulted in final projects that were further optimised in their technical and market performance
Just as importantly, we have no way to measure whether engagement with collaborative research may have provided the creative entrepreneurs in receipt of CFA with the insight to abandon unproductive lines of enquiry at an earlier stage
There was, however, clear evidence that the absorptive capacity of the SME in respect of innovation in its products and services was increased by engagement with a process of collaborate knowledge exchange. Further research is needed to establish whether this results in improved commercial returns in the short, medium and long term.




Any programme that looks to further explore the benefits of early stage collaborative research of the kind undertaken by Creativeworks London and the other three KE hubs needs to agree a clear conceptual framework at the outset.
It also needs to ‘look after the projects’ (Jon Dovey, again) and take into account the stage of business and emotional development of the entrepreneur.
This section looks at some tools to help with this process – some of them derived from
work done in the AHRC Knowledge Exchange programme itself.




Arts & Humanities researchers – and cultural producers – often apply a method than allows them to develop their work iteratively over a long period, based less on grounded research than on their imagination, or a ‘gut’ response. Conceptually, it can be modelled like this:


How not to judge too soon
What the slide above demonstrates is the need for a longer time frame in assessing creative innovation. Viewed through ‘the lens of now’, the majority of the projects undertaken in the first four years of Creativeworks have not provided evidence of ‘success’.
But compare that with the ‘hit rate’ of the Creative Fusion Awards, targeted on SMEs whose ideas had already been turned into prototypes and whose next goal was to go to market. It becomes clear that what is needed for the CV, CEIR and RIR projects to succeed in the long term is a greater focus on emergent trends and weak signals of change that will ultimately determine the direction that will be taken by the commercial mainstream.
What’s a reasonable timescale for this? Well, in 2007, Nokia produced more than half of all mobile phones sold, and its Symbian operating system commanded a 65.6% global market share.* On 9 January 2007, Apple announced the first generation iPhone. By 2013, Nokia had seen its market share collapse. It was forced to completely change strategy and offloaded its mobile phone devices and services division to Microsoft for a ‘fire sale’ price of
€5.4 billion. However, in another twist, a former Nokia executive has joined with Foxconn, the manufacturer of the iPhone, to buy back exclusive rights to use the Nokia name and technology in smartphones for $350m.
So maybe we need to give it another five to ten years?
* Kim, R. (2011) “the iPhone Effect: How Apple’s Phone Changed Everything.” GigaOm, 29 June 2011,
http.//gigaom.com/2011/06/29/the-iphone-effect-how-apples-phone-changed-everything/.

12


—
The d.school process model


Other world leading economies already embrace design-led innovation. Standford University’s interdisciplinary d-school – which identifies projects on the basis of social need and utility rather than an assessment of commercial gain – has the following visual model:






Researcher from the KE Hubs programme Design In Action identified a different concept – that of the ‘Knowledge Exchange Horizon’, which articulates the different between collaboratively engaged (‘external’) and in-house development processes.






A further iteration of this model takes us further into the kind of processes engaged in CFA
– establishing a ‘go to market’ strategy for the product, and defining the operational
processes needed to fulfil it:





Adding detail and description to the model turns it into a ‘road map’ for entrepreneurial development that also reflects the emotional state of the entrepreneur at each stage in the journey:




So now we have a picture of activity at the project level that may help us to understand how researchers and creative entrepreneurs interact in practice. How does this relate to the strategic case for both institutions, researchers and early stage businesses to engage in more projects of this kind?

[Add examples from the Festival panel]




There is increasing awareness of the value of arts & humanities – not just the 'surface' aspects of visual design and packaging – in translating the outcomes of science and technology research into innovative products and services for both business and consumer end users across a range of markets.
For example, the EU Horizon 2020’s ICT programme includes a €4m programme to engage artists, creative SMEs and ICT companies in collaborative and creative approaches to develop products that commercialise European science and technology discoveries.
As previously observed at d-school, and reflected in other global entrepreneurial movements such as Impact Hub, business accelerators are increasingly prioritising the potential social utility of innovation over short term commercial interests.
All of these trends emphasise the importance of investment to develop the capacity of creative economies as part of a longer term capacity to maintain and grow competitive advantage through innovation.




At the same time, other industries – including healthcare, logistics, finance –are making increasing use of sophisticated business applications of digital media to drive innovation and competitiveness in their own fields. These include:

Data visualisation
Use of video communications across a range of channels
Digital workflow management tools
Social media (and social media analytics)
AI and machine-to-machine learning
Virtual reality

These are all tools developed in the first instance by the creative sector that are now finding a wider audience. Any exploitation strategy for AHSS research needs to take this trend into account.




A&H research and cultural production tend to differ epistemologically from other kinds of science and technology based R&D. Very often, the motivation for new work stems from identity, a shared sense of history and community or a social purpose – and not commercial gain.
Similarly, the innovation agenda of both governments and corporations is increasingly driven by social, not commercial, concerns. We are entering a world in which digital communications form the basis of important human interactions and transactions that add value, bring meaning and help us to organise our individual and collective lives – but that have no immediate commercial value in and of themselves.
In this ‘weightless’ world, calculation of ‘gross value added’ at the level of an individual product or service is often meaningless, or impossible. The cost of providing the service cannot be returned through charging for individual transactions – imagine paying for a Facebook post like a call from a payphone, for example! It is only at the collective, or network level – when the outcomes and impacts of those interactions can be observed – that their value comes into focus.




Following on from that increased awareness of social purpose, we might argue that A&H researchers, artists and designers are ‘future proofed’. They tend to be more familiar, and comfortable, with iterative methods of investigation and production that focus on the audience and its reaction. This is a form of co-production that puts the ‘user’, and not the technology, at the heart of product development.
Research and development that puts the ‘end user’ at the centre of a value web, rather than identifying a traditional vertical value chain, is going to be of increasing value in addressing social problems – the costs of an ageing population, migration, unequal access to basic resources and intellectual property.
However, it is not clear at the moment that either public or private funders have a clear sense of what kind of business model needs to emerge, and what indicators from early stage investigation can help identify future ‘winners’. This is important because, in their different ways, current models of investment in both STEM and creative products rely in different ways on the ability to ‘pick hits.’
Identifying the elements of a future business model should be a primary objective of any
further public investment in collaborative research. What might that consist of?




Investment model

Develop capacity – Funding applications (RC, BIS, LEPs?) – Exploit capacity (with £ on y axis and time on x axis)




There is a consensus that successful creative innovation is as much about talent development as intervention in specific projects – but researchers are talent, too. The initial KE Hubs programme highlighted a number of risks to ECRs in terms of:

Are there specific roles in Universities for researchers looking to pursue this line of enquiry?
How does the ‘antidisciplinary’ nature of collaborative research align to departmental
structures?
How can the results be published? In what format? How doe you deal with IP and client confidentiality? What kind of peer review is appropriate? Over what timescale does the work take place, and therefore how frequently can you expect to publish findings?
The need to create a portfolio of work including academic research, network development and project engagement that faces both ways – to industry, and to address research objectives and ratings

8.	Wider impacts - how Universities could benefit from working with creative economy entrepreneurs and SMEs

Access to networks of small, specialist providers
Working across a range of cultural disciplines and digital technologies – a 'value web',
rather than a single supply chain
This is an area in which knowledge transfers through the movement of people, not by publication. The University's ability to facilitate a range of interactions, from meet-ups to co-working spaces, provides entrepreneurs with increased access to talent with the skills to help grow their business, as well as 'the knowledge base', in the form of post- docs and other researchers with relevant expertise.
The opportunity to introduce ‘corporate’ clients into this environment is more likely to stimulate development of an ecosystem with a mix of skills and capabilities that would help grow and sustain demand for other University services, from applied research to non-credit CPD and Executive Management training provision.

Scenario planning



We suggest a further programme of work to identify a number of scenarios that can be used to assess options for further development of the collaborative working methodologies explored through this and the other three KE Hubs.
These scenarios should examine 2 or 3 propositions and take into account:
Disciplines and interdisciplinarity
Research objectives
Challenges (including potential negative impacts on career development)
IP/assets of entrepreneurs, institutions and networks
Capability of individual institutions and networks
Business model
Target markets
ROM of cost and outcomes
Risk and mitigation
ROI
We would recommend an internal workshop (KE Hubs/AHRC) to agree scoring and
shortlisting of a preferred option.




[Using ROM – rough order of magnitude – estimations to arrive at an appropriate scale of
programme]


There is a question mark over the appropriateness and viability of continuing to seek to use research funding for SME development. Use of research funds may also create complications down the line over commercial investment in IP created in this way. As we have set out above, it is neither feasible nor desirable to try to ascertain commercial returns at too early a stage; this multiplies the difficulties of attaching a rational valuation to any investment made through research funding, which may face one of two challenges:
It may be diluted to such an extent in future rounds as to have no real value
It may present a barrier to future investment if private sector funders think the valuation of the university or RC stake is unrealistic
Any future strategy will need to demonstrate that it has considered what commercial approaches could complement public funding to provide further opportunities for interaction between creative SMEs and early career researchers (ECR) from Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences disciplines. We have speculated about a ‘development curve’ that can more clearly demonstrate the value of these collaborations and in turn deliver a compelling case for commercial investment. That investment could in turn take a number of forms: angel investment, crowdfunding, private equity and debt finance from a mix of private and public sources. But further trials of different models, including angel, private equity and VC funders as well as innovations such as peer-to-per and ‘crowdfunding’, should be considered in the scenario planning of any future programme.




Overall strategy
Quality and ‘depth’ of assets/IP
IP sharing and case studies
University capabilities/competencies
Partner capabilities/competencies
Competition
Positioning/value chain
Influencing – businesses and political stakeholders
ROM – ambition
Risk appetite


6 step work plan




[TABLE 1]
Step | Tasks
1. Inception | Agree, scope, approach, timetable
2. Audit Assets/IP | Internal interviews: business affairs/legal, executive/management, academic leads,
specialists in respective academic departments
Desk analysis of key documents: CVs, contracts, business plans
3. Size and scope markets and tech tends | Desk and web research: research papers, market reports, corporate documents
Interview key informants: producers, publishers, distributors/platforms, investors
4. Scenario planning | Identify, describe and score scenarios/propositions (2-3) by:
disciplines, challenges, assets, target markets, ROM, model, capability, risk, ROI
Internal workshop (KE Hubs/AHRC) to agree scoring and shortlist
5. Option assessment | Work up business case for preferred option, to include:
Research objectives; asset/IP base; business case; business model; potential sources of investment; income and expenditure (including cashflow, P/L and balance sheet, if required); critical path; risk strategy and mitigation
6. Recommendations & Action Plan | Articulate overall strategy – including relationship with RC and BIS
Recommend commercial partnership arrangements that secure SME funding
Devise detailed 3-4 year action plan for RC/BIS – with timelines
Present to executive
[/TABLE]
