FG2G Update - with Teams link - November 06

VIEW RECORDING - 39 mins (No highlights)



@0:00 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Thank you. Dave.


@0:08 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
Hi, Adrian. Hi, Laura.


@0:16 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
And like your fab note tank is in residence as well. It's my constant companion, Steve. Great stuff. Thank you for joining us short notice.
I guess it's a sort of update. feels like a long time ago since the group.


@0:44 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
What's that?


@0:49 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
It's just asking me to let Lynn again. Lynn appears to already be. Sorry, I think it's my note. Sorry about that, Steve.


@0:58 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
Fine. Fine.


@1:00 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
So you know what, hey, this I guess the whole point from good to great is to get things done, to understand that against the challenges of GM, why innovate funding can be an answer and understand the sort of journey that some of the applicants take and for all the right reasons figure out how we GM can do this better, do the last few yards, get people over the line, learn from winners and help people who are almost there do good things and I guess Caroline would be on the call but she had to do something else today.
I guess we as the universities and probably in as well are sort of keen to get this over the line and deliver the workshop in a way that's meaningful.
We obviously have had the reflective piece which is if this is if this is going to happen it's got to happen with quality and it's got to be useful.
So when the universities so can sort of offline to give this a kick. It has been, we see a lot of value in it.
We do think there's good things here and this can be a really useful activity and so the motivation from our side is looking to land this, hence the reason for going for the dates in December and hence trying to push things forward.
I think we now, through Adrian and perhaps through Innovate, there was an element of what's so special while we're doing this etc and I guess what I've tried to do for the purposes of the call here and again sorry for giving little notice is almost having the sort of one-page note which is why we're doing it and then the agenda itself which to a large extent follows what was spoken about getting on from two months ago which is the getting people in the room and figuring it out.
So on the assumption that you've either read what I've sent through or got it up on the screen. I'll quite happily talk to the briefing though, talk to the agenda and any changes.
then I guess I'm keen to get feedback from either the two parties in terms of does this work? Will it fly?
And if the answer is yes, then myself and Caroline are obviously keen and happy to push the button in terms of speakers and others and getting them on board.
We have four weeks, which either feels like a long time or a short time. But that's enough time probably to get the right number of companies and delegates in the room.
So I guess rather than lots of debate, it's around this is what we think can work. Happy to take feedback and then happy to try and land this and push in four weeks time.
On the proviso that we think quality and quality out and something that's useful. I guess the monologue for me and the next steps are, after talking through this briefing note, myself, Caroline, bringing in Solford as well, and others would be who do we invite and stuff.
the briefing note is very much around the lines. This is what we're going to share with those external companies, with also a sort of one paragraph email that sort of brings them there as well, but essentially we're inviting friends and inverted comments, in other words, organisations we've worked with.
So we are using sort of credibility little bit here, but there's also needs to be value. So I guess that briefing note to speak to it now, all bullet points taken all the way back from the brief, which is saying, here's the MMU, there's an aim of the MMU to increase the RD&I activity with the focus on SMEs, support the SMEs to attack.
innovation funding including Innovate and pointing out that the levels of success are lower than to be expected. Then we move on to the pilot workshop, which is stating the state of play at the moment, which is saying Innovate UK, and others such as Innovate Edge already do a really good job here.
They promote their own show, they provide tailored support. If that's what you need, great, you can already find it.
This is done at quality and done well. But again, the reason for the workshop, from a GM perspective, I'm just reading now, there's a real need to understand what the experiences of businesses need to be in successful in securing their funding or getting close.
What's the appetite for businesses to continue to pursue this funding stream? Because actually, you know, speaking sort of offline or afterwards can be quite challenging.
There are perspectives here. Three. figuring out that GM advantages, critical mass connectivity, et cetera, the question around what support do businesses require or is it already known accessible?
And how could or should these learnings be integrated into GM strategy and planning? Obviously from my side with wood eye on things like sector development plans, cetera, nothing particularly promise that says, hey, I'm going to give you a slice of the pie and x, y, and z, but perhaps a pair of sympathetic here, or more importantly, being part of the process for, and I'll just keep using it for the process of sector development plan or whatever else works, such that those businesses finally feel listened to, but are able to contribute.
And then I put a bullet point afterwards that says, and some of us not going to be here as well.
And there's a point that I'll come on to next in terms of balance. because it could be that most of the people in the room are a lot rather than the businesses, so it needs to be at least a 50-50 balance, preferably more in terms of the businesses as well.
it's saying there are people in the room that are listening, we know what we're doing and we're on this journey with you as well.
Why attend an overview of GM's strategic plans and importance of this collaborative funding? Learn first-hand experience from other GM regional businesses have been successful and almost at the end of the bullet points, we're able to share experiences with GMCA partners, etc, gain access to a cohort of businesses, for me a big sell, if you're going to do this a lot more, wouldn't it be good if you're also pushing, connect with us the universities, we often don't lead, but hey, we can be partners and then get information about the support possible, and I've said influence GMCA's strategy in thinking, perhaps that's overregging it slightly, but hey, you never know.
All this, by the way, is me writing something for comments. If any of this is too strong or directed in the wrong way, so be it.
I'm trying to run hot slightly to say, this is what I think from a Curtin Caroline scene and reviewed this and said, yeah, fine.
And therefore, after we have the reason to attend, we then move on to the agenda. Very similar to a couple of months ago with the bits that I'm pulling out, with the welcome, the usual sort of welcome and objectives.
This is the business to do some of the stuff we've mentioned before, but I also wanted a bullet point in there with the strengths and advantages of being in Greater Manchester.
Perhaps a couple of slides that speaks to some of the good stuff again from the next department panel, similar repurpose a couple of slides.
Hey, there's a strategy. Hey, we're pushing forwards. This is part of the thinking, but it's not the only action.
Lots is going on and lots is going to continue to go on before we have, it's two and three.
Who are you? Why are you here? The 55 minute reflective piece on genuine experience for all the reasons mentioned on the bullet points, et cetera, et cetera.
Some of this is going to be good. Some of this is going to be honest. All of it hopefully will be useful.
And then we have something that's a slightly different nuance to perhaps was discussed before, because it's discussed before we had, hey, what does your best practice application look like?
Let's go through questions seven and eight or whatever it is, and we will give you a little bit of a masterclass.
Actually, when myself and Caroline talked to the businesses, what we thought, what came across more strongly was almost the reason to be involved a bit.
And a contact I find incredibly useful in some these, which I put very closely with. is a guy called Paul from Arcadus, large engineering consultancy, but do everything from green energy to the civils, et cetera.
He said he was very happy to give all the rest of the sort of candid perspective on one of the challenges with 2008 funding, but then there was sort of really powerful why get involved.
the challenges instantly are, it was that important to the business, why the heck don't we just fund it anyway?
And a number of comments along those lines. But the why should we get involved is the power to influence, create new activity, really link into sector plans and power of greater Manchester and a bunch of other stuff.
So it's saying this is really important for us, we can get great projects going. And this really helps us doing all the sectorial GM stuff, which was great.
That's kind of what I was hoping he was going to say and he was very happy to talk to that and give a perspective and that kind of feeds into what's above.
And then And we have that sort of mirrored a little bit by a vector homes through Caroline, giving a more of an SME perspective as well.
of the things they've found easy, some of things they've found harder, and what that means to them. And then we've have sections you've seen before, sign posting.
Have you got what you need, what's kicking around, et cetera? Feedback and evaluation piece. And then as it gets to one o'clock, light lunch and departure.
So I guess a little bit of a monologue, really. What hasn't happened in the last two months is people spent hours and hours and hours rejigging and recreating this.
What has happened is myself, Caroline Martha and others have looked at it, reviewed it and said, right, this is what we think we're at, this is how we think we can address it.
And now, of course, I'm conveniently cool to say, does this work? And if it does, hey, we can get on with it.
and move really. So happy to take feedback in any way it comes. I don't know why would yeah yeah what's just happened sorry okay I can see you later.


@12:12 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
Yeah okay just just a couple of questions for me I thought the briefing note was great Steve it really just clearly and concisely summed everything up with just a couple questions for me I think in one of the notes or you put about the sector development plan does that exist or does it need updated or what stage is that at?


@12:35 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
I'm simply borrowing here from from some of the current GMC activity.


@12:44 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
Okay fine well maybe Adrian you could enlighten does that sector development plan exist or is it another is there another name for it?
That's a few sector development plans then I don't think it's


@13:00 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
It's relevant, but I don't think it's important for the purpose of the workshop, so to speak.


@13:06 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
Okay, well, I think it probably leads into another question, really, which is then in the, sorry, let me just get it up on the screen, in the agenda itself.
And it goes to the point that you were making, Steve, about the balance of the people in the room.
So preferably like 50-50 businesses and others, as we've got two businesses in the room, and also in myself, but we can put that to one side.
The bit where it comes into GM, CAGM perspective, what will that cover and who will be there?


@13:46 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
So this is the bit I've sort of, I haven't yet, one of the reasons for having the call was dropping in the hey Adrian, what do you think?
Because one of the comments that came up really strong, was YMGM. And so, as Adrian said, there are different thematic sector development plans, GMCR, developing them.
Again, I'm agnostic in terms of what's mentioned and what's spoken about. The only reason I put down the sector development plan is clearly those aligned to some of the thematic areas that we've spoken about individually here.
And I think it was more the challenge point, which is one of the couple of slides that somebody with credibility can deliver that says this is the plan for GM or these are the important sectors for GM and this is the other activity that's happening.
This is part of a bigger picture piece. Again, just trying to tie it down and giving Adrian the to put almost the sort of GMCA introduction to what we're trying to do.
Hey, Adrian, happy to listen.


@15:04 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
Yeah, I think we can give that overall view quite easily without getting into too much teacher around specific plans and policy areas.
think, yeah, fine to focus on, you know, the fact that, you know, these are frontier sectors for us, strategic or any important, from an economic perspective and, you know, we've got an M were you agreement with the UK, part of that is to look at how they couldn't support businesses being more successful when applying into it in a bit, you get funding.


@15:45 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Good stuff. And just for my understanding, again, the reason for my development plan bias was clearly I was in the materials one couple of months ago at Man-Matt, which I thought was great.
Is there a reason for not flagging back activities? Or is it just that it's a different stages of development when you think it's a distraction?


@16:07 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
That for me, yeah, yeah, yeah, I can, you know, can refer to it. I don't think that's necessarily, you know, what's what's the strategic policy area will necessarily be that relevant to businesses?
But, you know, I can talk about it or somebody can talk about it, you know, or mention it in the context of the setting, yes, that might be, you know, interesting.


@16:32 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
So essentially, there's two or three slides you can speak to in the introduction. Is that correct? Just in general?
Yeah, or no slide.


@16:42 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
happy with of the talk, you know, mean, that's me, you know, I mean, yeah, we can think about what we want to say.
I'm very happy for this inflation.


@16:58 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Let's any additional. documents. Just see the the two businesses that are there.


@17:05 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
One you know quite well and you said they've quite experienced them doing this. The second one, have they done innovative UK applications?
Yes they've got more successful projects through the University of Manchester.


@17:22 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
So the brief of course is what works well, what works less so and again that perspective really. The instantly the thoughts here were if you want to know really, let's say, business plan or whatever, how you can workshop that out.
can do a whole bunch of other stuff to get that specific one-on-one guidance but actually we're trying to do something slightly different here.


@17:48 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
Are we looking to stick up those two businesses or are we trying to recruit some more to make it a bit more of a conversation?


@17:55 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
So we've got two businesses that are speaking, the aim is to get eight to ten other businesses in the room and that's that's what's critical that's how we can that's the reason we're doing section three who are you once you business what you're trying to achieve and that's where we're trying to get the coverage of the the four sectors and how far down the road are you with that engagement have you got any provisional signups or that start now and it's four weeks to do that so well it's a start now again it's appreciated it that it's tight but these are known friends in other words people that are around GM-ish and yeah and they're people that we've been involved with again what this needs not to be is man map and um have to make sure that software involved and others as well okay so how practically how are we doing that is there a long list that you're


@19:00 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
you're contacting people from or do you want us to contact people and say we're doing this and you've been suggested as a business that might be interested in doing this with us which which way around are we doing it?


@19:11 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
To be honest the easy option is people who hold the contact making the contact because that means people actually read it.
The urgent action with me if people are happy with what's been written and shared is needing to get sulphur and others in play as well.
Yeah, okay, that's great.


@19:32 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
Yes, sorry one more another question for me just in terms of like the style and how it actually delivers as a workshop you're going to have three universities there, Adrian possibly others from GFCI.
Do you want are they involved with the businesses? mean I know part of the remit of this workshop is that you observe what's going on and you take in what the businesses say.
just sort of thinking like, how's the room shaped? Is there one group of people on one side and another group on the other?
do you want to mingle?


@20:08 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
If I have a concern, it's around balance. Because if you've got a load of sort of intermediaries in a slot, it's going to feel a bit weird.
And he said probably using the wrong words. Because I mean, for example, I've got several people from my KTP team and who are interested or all the way down.
if I just, if I felt like the delicate list of people who are interested myself, director, Martha, Caroline from Manchester, or Adrian from GMCA, Janet from Solford, but there's a man from her, the leader of a KTP team.
There's somebody from Innovate Edge, guy called Gordon McDonald, I think, Rick Holland can't in Atlanta. Can I suggest a question?


@21:00 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
Thanks Dave. I don't think we're ever going to be completely safe and feeling that the businesses aren't going to be outnumbered.
Can I suggest that the people making contributions come in as to do guest slots at the time of that contribution that we record it and that we then share the recording with all the other parties so that we can analyze it that way?


@21:26 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
I was going to make a similar suggestion that those who are observing are observing perhaps online and those in room are in the room.


@21:35 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Yeah and hey that's so thanks for those comments. of course agree because the balance needs to be there as well.
Hi Adrian you've got your hand up again.


@21:48 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
Yeah just that point around recording we'd have to let people know that the be recorded and people would have to be happy to be recorded so there might be a little bit of a rest there I suppose.
If somebody says, no thank you, but yeah, maybe something to think about. Just a few questions on the agenda, because I think this is really the meat of where we're getting to, isn't it, with a pilot approach, so to speak.
I'm a little bit on the theory as to who's designed the agenda. Is that you, Steve, or is that fifth sector?
How has the agenda been informed by the work that fifth sector has done, I suppose? That's a question, that's a question that I have.
I think the other point I want to make is around, you know, outcomes from this pilot, are we clear amongst ourselves what we expect, the outcome of the workshop to be.
I appreciate it, it's with friendly businesses, et cetera, et cetera, we're I get that, but you know, we also should be testing, you know, whether, you know, the intended outcomes if this was delivered, you know, in a real setting, so to speak, would be realizable.
And my third point is, is just a little bit around content. I mean, I have not a huge amount of time look at this, but on item three, why are you here?
You know, there's a bit of me that thinks, well, we should know either there because, you know, we've spent a lot of time on phase one of this project, sort of, you know, gathering the evidence, so to speak, and making the case for the gaps that exist I said those in, in, in helping businesses to be more successful.
So that bit of me looking at that that's thinking, well, okay, you know, if we are going to say why are you here, you know, I shouldn't.
see a little bit about, you know, well, we think you should be here because this is what we this is what we've uncovered from the work today.
This is this is why we think you should be here. You know, it does this resonate with you as a business community, so to say maybe.
But yeah, but I just it just feels to me as if that item sort of takes us back over low ground that may be covered in phase one, you know, so I'm just a little bit cautious about that and it does have a significant kind of time allocated to it.
So I just I'll let Ian answer in a second.


@24:34 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
So the chronology was, of course, there's a brief tip to Ian that said, hey, this is what we're looking to achieve.
Here's a suggested agenda. There's work that Ian and Lynn did and an update to the agenda and the sort of proposed workshop, which forms the basis of the call a couple of months ago now, where we spoke through what some of those objectives and outcomes were.
And section three was actually where We, the group, spent a lot of time on with Rick Holland, in particular, pushing back on the, hey, three is really important, because we really need to know what's worked and what hasn't.
We have a view that the people who are giving up time have unique experience of what that is, and being able to pull that out from GM businesses who are in the room is incredibly important.
And I guess, again, I'm happy to let Ian speak, but in terms of the outcomes, some of this, yeah.
So that piece for me, Adrian, is about checking that alignment.


@25:41 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
So in the previous stages of this project, it was all about making sure that all the public sector partners broadly and the universities were aligned in their sense of what needed to come out of this.
That question is testing what the individual businesses' motivations are and what they see the opportunities. shortcomings in the process are.
So it's the qualitative test to assure that their motivation is actually correctly aligned with what we think we're going to do collectively in terms of the outcome.
Because I don't think we can necessarily take that for granted. Some of the businesses would be at different stages of development as Steve's pointed out.
Some of them have already had successful applications, of them have looked at the process and haven't gone through. So we really want to capture those individual most patients.
We want to get people talking about them. I think that's really an important point.


@26:38 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
I mean, this is a pilot. Yeah, so I think there's a danger that we put together an agenda and don't explain why we've structured the agenda, and, you know, I'm saying this because.
I think, you know, when people like Rick and others come to this, who haven't been at it for weeks or weeks and months and months, you know, because there has been gaps here.
And that we're able to say, well, actually, you know what, item three is structured in this way because actually, as you described Ian, it needs to do xy and z.
So maybe we need another column to the right of this agenda because this is, you know, a pilot agenda, which is a bit, you know, explaining sort of what we're trying to achieve through this process, if you like.
So explain it to the businesses.


@27:42 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
No, I think to ourselves, I think to ourselves to be honest, to be honest, honest, be Three things about that.
One of them is, that's what all the previous conversations been about, which you've got us to this point of having agenda, which covers that issue in that way.
The second is, we need to to allow ourselves a little bit of critical distance in the room and therefore I think the right place for that I think what you're saying is absolutely right we need to at the end of the pilot be able to say this is this was the starting point and this is the distance traveled and this is achieved but I think that's in our that's in our feedback it's important that we capture it and it's good that you've noticed it but I think it's in our feedback we probably need to just make it clear as part of our overall project not just the delivery of the workshop itself what we do with the evidence gathered at the workshop and communicate that right way.


@28:43 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
In the introductory piece one is are you able to reflect on the approach so far and how we've got here and speak to some of the sections that Adrian's mentioned is it possible to cover and
And I'm asking the question actually to both. Yeah, this is the context piece and the outcomes piece.


@29:06 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
So this is what we're doing as independent assessor, if you like, meshes with the GM presentation of this is why we think it's important.
Those two things come together to provide the rationale for that third section. So GM has got not only close strategic prioritization about this, it's got a specific set of agreements in place with Innovate UK, which prioritise this investment, both in terms of the money that the businesses get and the support that the businesses get.
This is a massive opportunity. Our piece is partners in the room, or partners not in the room, hopefully partners observing want to be more ambitious about this.
How can we be more ambitious about about this. One of the things that's stopping potentially you and businesses like you, from fully understanding and exploiting the opportunities that are specific to the greater Manchester context.
Silence. I'm not sure a science is a good thing about me. I mean, I think that's changing direction of where we've been from day one in May.


@30:39 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
I think my point, think, sitting behind this is a lot of work, and I think that maybe we are missing a slight opportunity here just to make sure that people are clear as to why we're delivering that the work's stopping the way that we're delivering.
Yes, in this format, so to speak, but you know, if you want us to watch that afterwards.


@31:06 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Well, yeah, I mean, I think so sorry to interrupt is, is it just that we can this just be pulled together in, I can say a slide with bullet points for the introduction, which is this is how we're framing the workshop or on a missing segment.


@31:22 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
absolutely.


@31:22 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Is that something that we'll cover off your concerns, Adrian, because it's like the reason in the room is this, this is the work that's preceded it.
We're going to walk you through this agenda. This is the purpose and this is what we're looking for at the end.
Yeah, absolutely.


@31:40 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
I think that's as that's as important for the sponsors as it is for the people attending, you know, and participating in the workshop on the day.


@31:51 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
Yeah, so one of the things that we haven't gone into yet is the detail of the site, what sits within those agenda items, but from past experience, I know that the way that Lynn and I will do.
this is we'll use some sort of reflective tools in the room like Mentimeter. So what we'll probably do is do a very simple looking slide with some very sort of straightforward sounding options about what are your motivations in this and use that as the talking point to bring out in detail that because I think otherwise you change the tone of this into kind of hammering a message home.
We don't want that to be the tone, we want it to be exploratory about an exchange of ideas and then getting people to kind of synthesize their own conclusions out of it rather than feeling that they're being led along a particular path but we will structure it in a way that transparency to that and also when we come to feedback I think it will really help partners to kind of go yeah so when we framed the question in that way this was the way in which the businesses responded and this is the variation between the different.
As a response to the conversation that came out of that exploration of the differences between the way they received it.


@33:12 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
So, thank you. mean, I guess from my perspective, I guess there's two ways of doing it. Thank you for the clarification in.
So, for the introductory piece, is it possible for Ian to draft or a slide in terms of the objectives and framing it?
And or determine how much time to be spent sort of describing the activity that precedes it. So, I guess there's probably two things, which is what's been done before, that the press say on who we spoke to, what and when the learnings that came out, if that doesn't produce this discussion.
And then the objectives of the workshop piece, which is structured in this way for these reasons. Thank you for coming.
This is what the different sections are looking to achieve. Does that work or?


@34:00 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
Yeah, I think even better what we might be able to do is provide you and the partners with the one feature to share with the businesses in advance of coming.
So they can actually go yeah, I understand why I'm being asked to come here now, so that they come in perhaps rather than coming in cold.


@34:21 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
And when I'm doing the invite, I clearly have the initial briefing down that I spoke through at the start.
I mean, that's from my perspective a reasonable start for 10 because I need to get bodies to commit. But from what you're saying in terms of joining instruction, if we have something that we share with them the week before, that's really, really useful.
And again, my only suggestion would be that that's shared with Adrian and he's happy with that approach and that would be really useful.
think think so.


@34:53 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
We've got to be pretty sure that we include some kind of benefit statement for the businesses about why they should be attending.
because if they feel like they're just lab rats for this process, what's the motivation for that? And that's something we can capture in that one page that goes out to them beforehand.


@35:09 - Lynne McCadden (The Fifth Sector)
It goes back to the point that there's been a couple of times on this call about the balance, it's not just the balance of numbers, it's also the balance of having a workshop which is of benefit to the businesses but also of benefit in an exploratory way to the stakeholders and it's that fine balance that we are trying to achieve in this workshop.


@35:31 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
And actually Steve, it might be worth enlisting Paul's or from our cadence's objective view of that benefit statement when we've when we trust it and before it goes, because he's the kind of asset to us, but if it looks if it smells right to the person from the business who knows this stuff from the business side, then we've hit the right term.
Okay, excellent, that works for me.


@35:56 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Great.


@35:58 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
Okay, so I guess... I'm just going to say, I've got to rush off to another meeting very shortly, so if we're good to go on that basis, then I'll take away an action to start thinking about we draft that initial one-pager.
So, you and I reconvene when we've got a bit of a site for the Business Society.


@36:21 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Sure, and I'm just checking with Adrian is what you've heard at the tail end of this discussion useful and what you need.
If the answer's yes or almost yes, that's good enough for me.


@36:36 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
Well, yes, in the sense that, you know, let's test this. Let's test this approach and see what happens, yeah?
don't know if it's going to produce the outcome that we're looking to produce, but let's see what we get from this trialing.


@37:00 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
And again, with this final comment from me, if there is an outcome that's missed or something that you inherently need to be in there, again, yell, and we'll make sure it works.
I as a university, my outcomes for this are engaged cohort of companies that I can work with, successful funding, et cetera, and ride off into the sunset for successful bids, but I'm very aware that my viewpoint is slightly limited.
So please shout out, and we make sure we weave in as strongly as we can particularly to make sure that stakeholders such as Innovate UK are going to be happy and don't say, hey, you missed it, guys.


@37:36 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
Yeah, I think the feedback and evaluation section is really important in the context, because we want businesses to be honest about whether this approach, whether they see this approach is actually making a material difference to their ability to be more successful.
And it comes to Innovate UK. So, yeah, I think we really need to make sure that we get that feedback and evaluation item structured in a way that it does actually enable us to do that.


@38:18 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Great stuff. Okay. Thanks, Steve.


@38:23 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
Thanks, Steve. appreciate it.


@38:24 - Steve Hillier (Manchester Metropolitan Uni)
Thank you. See you soon.


@38:26 - Iain Bennett (The Fifth Sector)
Thank you.


@38:27 - Toland, Adrian (Greater Manchester Investment Fund)
Bye.
