
[PAGE 1]
1
North East Lincolnshire Council
North East 
Lincolnshire Council
CUL TURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND 2019 – 2022
FINAL SCOPING REPORT (Non capital elements)
21 November 2019
Co-authored by:  
Photograph by Toni CoatesJames Turner, Cultural Programmes Manager; 
James Brindle, Director Development and Partnerships; 
Jens Frimann-Hansen, Artistic Director and 
Mark Humphreys, Chief Executive

[PAGE 2]
72Magna Vitae
TABLE OF 
CONTENTS
03
 Executive Summary Introduction 07
09
 1.1 Existing events and 
programming review1.2 Audience data review 14
23
 1.3 Consultation methods 
and approach1.4 Venue Analysis 27
34
 1.5 International 
programming fit1.6 Curation and delivery 35
39
 1.7 Programme launch 
options1.8 Cultural programme 
delivery outline for 2020/2142
Photograph by Toni Coates47
 1.9 Local capacity building

[PAGE 3]
3
North East Lincolnshire Council
7Magna Vitae is delighted to be working with North East Lincolnshire Council (NELC)  and its 
Programme Board to develop and deliver a cultural events programme in Greater Grimsby 
as part of the Cultural Development Fund’s (CDF’s) ‘Open for Culture’ Programme. The CDF 
provides a hugely exciting, inspiring and timely opportunity for Grimsby to develop and deliver 
a cultural programme that is ambitious, impactful and sustainable.
At the heart of this programme is the requirement and intention to develop the local area, its 
cultural, community and business sectors - increasing capacity, skills, networks and 
cohesiveness  to ensure a single strong vision and voice for Grimsby’s long-term cultural 
development. The outcome of which, over time, will be a highly effective, competent and 
experienced network and body of key local individuals and organisations  that can take 
forward this step change in cultural development sustainably - leading, directing and 
delivering for themselves rather than being reliant upon support from key external partners . 
Two strands of the ‘Open for Culture’ programme: primarily the New Horizons element and 
additionally this, the New Commissions element are intended to achieve this outcome.
We present to you a significant depth of analysis and insight to each of the nine main 
elements of the initial phase one event programme scoping project, which are 
detailed throughout; along with the required proposals leading in to phase two of the project.
Research into existing programming , drawn together with other similar previously 
commissioned work, evidences a good mix of mostly small-scale programmes and events, 
some of high-quality artistic content. There are varying degrees of sector collaboration 
feeding a growing ambition to effect a real ‘sense of place’ for Grimsby through culture. Some 
gaps exist in terms of engaging the community in shaping culture; absence of a local 
National Portfolio Organisation (NPO); using iconic spaces and buildings to better creative 
advantage; and large-scale ‘place shaping’ events. Through the Open for Culture project 
therefore there is a need for: a more effective, coordinated marketing strategy for cultural 
events activity; focussed training and development would enable more resilient and 
sustainable funding strategies to be developed, reducing reliance on NELC and ACE as the 
default ‘go to’ sources; audience engagement strategies to become community driven rather 
than artistically centred. The area should also look and reach outwards to build collaborations 
and partnerships that will be a positive force supporting Grimsby’s cultural growth and 
development.
Audience and participation  research data shows overwhelmingly, as is known, that NEL has 
low arts participation and engagement amongst its population - some of the lowest in the 
country; and when focusing on the analysis of Grimsby town’s specific communities, this Executive Summary

[PAGE 4]
4
Magna Vitaepicture sadly is poorer. Positively however this creates a fantastic upwards trajectory 
opportunity. Local audiences to target are the specifically identified children, young 
people and families; and the Grimsby town centre communities. Programmes that 
dynamically engage the local community in identified underrepresented genres should, 
wherever possible, form part of festival programme content shaping.
Approaching community consultation  must be ‘bottom up’ focussed recognising the diversity 
of communities, the existing strong community organisations, and the communities’ 
engagement preferences. This is a carefully nurtured process that take’s time to have lasting 
and sustained effect. The forward consultation strategy should have the longer-term vision, 
not just the relatively short-term CDF programme requirements in mind and will be designed 
accordingly. The Magna Vitae cultural development team have already begun to carefully 
establish and build positive and trusting relationships. The creation of this independent and 
trust-based approach is critical to making positive, whole area, cultural development leaps 
forward beyond some of the current local and historical perceptions, tensions and opinions of 
one another. Overcoming these must be achieved to move positively and holistically forward 
as a single voice for Grimsby. Being embedded in the community is key, as is the need to 
embrace the whole community. This will build a strong and stable base upon which to foster 
sustainable community involvement to take culture forward. Steps to develop a forward 
programme of next stage consultation are outlined in section 1.3.3.
Challenges exist in optimising use of the available, traditional and potential, cultural spaces  
that are plentiful in Grimsby. Some of them very symbolic and iconic. Creating impactful and 
lasting cultural development and cultural sense of place needs to make maximum use of 
these iconic places to wow Grimbarians and external audiences alike. Connecting these 
spaces through the Open for Culture festival’s ‘story’ of artistic content presents amazing 
opportunities, if not with a few programming challenges. Similarly, there are some little-known 
spaces within community facilities with untapped potential. None of the spaces identified to 
us through this work are unviable as performance spaces through a managed approach, but it 
should be noted that use of some key iconic spaces is wholly dependant upon private 
landowner support such as spaces in the Port of Grimsby.
When scoping the potential international festival content and fit with Greater 
Grimsby , it is not enough to simply commission stand-alone spectacular set piece 
performances. It is vital that all the artistic companies involved – local, national and 
international, have a successful track record of working with and in communities as a 
fundamental basis of their performance programming. This includes our encouraging 
selected international companies to provide partnerships that lead to exchanges such as 
touring, career progression, educational exchanges and wider economic considerations. 
Shaping the programme development for 2020 and 2021 has this ethos at its heart.
The approach to the curation and delivery of the Greater Grimsby ‘Open for Culture’ event 
programme  proposes that Magna Vitae would be responsible for the overall festival project, 
delivered in conjunction with our artistic partner Helsingør Teater. The team, headed by James 

[PAGE 5]
5
North East Lincolnshire CouncilBrindle and Jens Frimann-Hansen, would lead in the designing, content development, 
programming and event management of the events on behalf of NELC, involving and 
working with local community organisations where appropriate. Event procurement and 
budget management should be managed and overseen through and by Magna Vitae by way 
of an agreed phase two project contract, aligned to ACE and NELC programme deliverables 
and requirements. This approach will enable a cohesive and efficient approach to navigating 
the technicalities of artistic content procurement in a local government setting. Details of 
specific approaches to ‘buying-in’ or ‘commissioning’ programme content along with those for 
event and budget management are outlined at section 1.6.2.  As an NPO, Magna Vitae is very 
familiar with and experienced in meeting the requirements of ACE grant funding criteria.
There is a clear indication in the project application for a  launch event in the winter of 
2019/20 , which is fully endorsed. From our analyses, however, we strongly advise against a 
winter launch festival as we believe there to be significant risk to the overall aims and 
viability of the Grimsby ‘Open for Culture’ programme. It is instead proposed there be a more 
impactful programme launch in March 2020, funded through the CDF grant, as a 
high-profile public and media event creating national sector profile and recognition. The 
launch event would feature several key ‘big news’ releases, including: 
- launch of a programme of local audience development partnerships with key 
 community groups;
- launch of a programme of small to mid-scale artist commissions to develop content 
 for the 2020 & 2021 festivals; 
- launch of EU internships, through bursaries, to support local skill and career 
 development enhancing local training and development opportunities for the sector. 
All of these programme opportunities fit directly with the aims of the Grimsby ‘Open for 
Culture’ programme objectives and will greatly enhance the overall success of the project. 
It perhaps goes without saying that the launch event should and would include a high impact 
artistic element reflecting the festival’s community involvement ethos and building a sense of 
anticipation of what is to come in the main events in 2020 and 2021. 
The festival for 2020 and 2021  is recommended to take place in June each year for 
greatest impact and fit with existing event programmes. The festival would be programmed 
as the ‘centrepiece’ event over the 3 days,  12th to 14th OR 19th to 21st June 2020  [and same 
weekend in 2021], as part of an ‘umbrella’ festival brand encompassing a wider programme 
of cultural events including those local programmes already occurring. This will create a CDF 
festival branded programme with everything coordinated, aligned and strategically marketed 
as a Grimsby/NEL ‘Open for Culture’ brand legacy. Our proposed approach to establish an 
overarching event theme and subsequent brand flows from locally identified theme-elements 
around ‘origins’, ‘heritage’ [and linked to that ‘food’]; and looking to the ‘future’ through 
Grimsby’s growth industries. These have resonance with a central overarching theme, 
common to them all, that is expanded further in Section 1.8. The festival brand should seek 
to identify with a theme that captures the essence of all of these elements. A dynamic and 
eclectic mix of programming and content can subsequently be developed that would never 

[PAGE 6]
6
Magna Vitaebe exhausted of new, different and relevant programme content. Accordingly, the preliminary 
stages of outline cultural programme ideas for 2020 and 2021, and ‘fit’ with Greater Grimsby 
have been developed.
Throughout this report we highlight current strengths alongside our observations of identified 
areas of potential for local capacity growth . The final section of the report draws together 
those observations and summarises the solutions that are proposed. Opportunities exist for 
the New Horizons programme to support the delivery of the learning and capacity building 
identified; and these two programme elements should be taken forward through a connected 
approach.
The identified areas of capacity building are summarised as ‘ Artistic’, ‘Cultural Leadership’, 
‘Community and Learning’, ‘Funding and Fundraising’ and ‘Event Production and Delivery’ with 
opportunities presented to support those through open-call commissions, bursaries, work 
shadowing/mentoring and festival employment opportunities . Further depth of how those 
arrangements will be provided are outlined at section 1.9.7
We strongly believe there is a need for an overarching ‘strategic’ cultural body  that brings 
together not just the local cultural sector, but also local business, educational sector, local 
government, and key community organisations. This group could evolve from the existing 
CDF Programme Board to subsequently oversee, initially with Magna Vitae’s support, the 
process of creating a sustainability for culture within Grimsby; this being the possible 
development of a local NPO or a Creative People and Places partnership. Our proposal 
therefore would be that, to maintain the strength and momentum of the CDF programme, a 
wider representative ‘ Culture Forward ’ body is established from the Programme Board. 
Additional membership and representation would need to be solicited as part of the phase 
two project, which we are confident can be achieved from the relationship building undertaken 
so far and through the next stage of consultations. The recent appointment to the Council’s 
team of a new Strategic Lead for Culture demonstrates a clear driving intent in this regard 
and the transition to increased local leadership over time will be strengthened through this 
approach.


[PAGE 7]
7
North East Lincolnshire CouncilMagna Vitae is working with North East Lincolnshire Council (NELC) and its Programme 
Board to develop and deliver a cultural events programme in Greater Grimsby as part of the 
Cultural Development Fund’s (CDF’s) ‘Open for Culture’ Programme.  Magna Vitae is a 
delivery partner to NELC and is named in the Council’s grant agreement with Arts Council 
England.
Aims - the CDF aims to develop transformative culture-led economic growth and 
productivity strategies through investing in place based cultural initiatives and the creative 
industries.  Through these culture-led strategies, the CDF aims to support Grimsby to:
1. Use culture and creative activity to unlock economic growth and productivity;
2. Use culture and creative activity to make places attractive to live in, work and visit; 
3. Strengthen local leadership in culture and/or the creative industries; 
4. Enhance creative skills.
Culture and heritage-led regeneration of Grimsby’s town centre and waterfront is identified as 
playing a vital role in the hugely significant Town Deal secured in 2018. The Open for Culture 
project plays a key role in delivering NELC’s vision for culture and heritage as set out in its 
Culture and Heritage Framework (2018 – 2028).
The CDF award provides a hugely exciting, inspiring and timely opportunity for Grimsby to 
develop and deliver a cultural programme that is ambitious, impactful and sustainable.
At the heart of this programme is the requirement and intention to develop the local area, its 
cultural, community and business sectors - increasing capacity, skills, networks and 
cohesiveness to ensure a single strong vision and voice for Grimsby’s long-term cultural 
development. The outcome of which, over time, will be a highly effective, competent and 
experienced network and body of key local individuals and organisations that can take 
forward this step change in cultural development sustainably - leading, directing and 
delivering for themselves rather than being reliant upon support from key external partners. 
Two strands of the ‘Open for Culture’ programme: primarily the New Horizons element and 
additionally this, the New Commissions element are intended to achieve this outcome.
Definitions - It should be noted that for the purposes of the Cultural Development Fund the 
following definitions are applied to culture and the creative industries;
 “culture” refers to the arts, museums and libraries, heritage (including built, natural and 
intangible heritage) and the extent to which investment in them supports growth in the 
commercial creative industries. Introduction

[PAGE 8]
8
Magna Vitae“creative industries” refers to industries with a high intensity of creative occupations. This 
includes those in creative and non-creative jobs within the creative industries and is a 
subset of the creative economy. 
Timescales - This initial report relates to phase one of the programme which is a scoping 
exercise requiring specific research, analysis and recommendations in response to nine 
explicit areas. It has been carried out between 5 August and 4th October 2019.   
Consideration has been given to the capital investment element of the project, relating to the 
Kasbah area of the docks and led by East Street Arts.  
Phase two of the Open for Culture programme covers, in its entirety, the period through to 
31st March 2022.
Methodology - Magna Vitae has applied a diverse methodology into its research, analysis and 
assessment in forming the recommendations set out in this report.  This has included a 360° 
approach to engaging a broad spectrum of stakeholders through a variety of the most 
appropriate means.  
Members of the public, private business, cultural organisations and networks, 
community organisations, international artists, educational establishments, tourism 
bodies have all been consulted.  Engagement has taken place through face to face 
meetings, forums, online questionnaires, stakeholder events and site visits.
Our research has been met with enormous enthusiasm from the people of Grimsby.  There 
has been a willingness to enhance culture as a force for change, with immense pride for not 
only the town’s heritage but also opportunities for the future.
A huge thank you to everyone who gave their time, energy and thoughts to help us 
undertake our research.  You have genuinely inspired us, and it wouldn’t have worked 
without you.
Our thanks also to Charlotte Bowen for her consultancy work supporting specific elements of 
this work and Toni Coates, who is studying an FdA photography course at University Centre 
Grimsby, in supplying photographs.
Specific acknowledgement was also asked to be noted by NELC colleagues in respect of the 
contribution of the CultureWorks consortium members in supporting NELC and the local area 
to secure its CDF award status.

[PAGE 9]
9
North East Lincolnshire Council Review existing events and wider programming in Grimsby/North East 
 Lincolnshire to identify what works well along with gaps in provision
Our review of both existing events and wider programming has been carried out through the 
most appropriate use of a range of relevant methods.  This includes site visits, stakeholder 
meetings, one to one meetings, phone conversations, email and desktop research.  
Our assessment includes what is working well and should be fostered, as well as 
opportunities that exist to address gaps in provision.  
Centre4 has provided the base from which we have conducted this research.  A true hub of 
community life in Grimsby for residents and local businesses, it has provided a unique 
perspective and context into the potential of cultural led regeneration in Grimsby.
A full list of the events attended is included in Appendix 1.
 Findings
Events
Site visits and meetings with event organisers took place throughout the scoping phase, and 
in some instances beyond, out of necessity due to the timescales involved.
This included cultural and sporting events in Grimsby, North East Lincolnshire and 
neighbouring towns and cities;
• Grimsby – NEL Arts Society exhibition, Picnic In The Park, Great Grimsby 10k
• Cleethorpes – Festival of the Sky, Meridian Park, Grimsby Town FC
• Villages – Healing Village Fest
• Hull/Skegness – Freedom Festival and SO Festival as the closest National Portfolio 
 Organisations (NPO’s).  
• Without Walls - (viewing commissions at Freedom Festival and SO Festival)
• Coasters – informal conversations have also been held in relation to the possible  
 development of stage two of the Coasters network 1.  A meeting is scheduled for 11 
 November 2019 with national partners in London.Scoping Elements
1.1
1.1.1
1Coasters is a three-year project that brings together world-class circus and street arts to coastal towns across England.  
It is supported by ACE’s Strategic Touring Fund 

[PAGE 10]
10
Magna VitaeWhat works well
•   Good mix of events;
• Genres – Aerial, Light, Street Theatre, Visual Art, Entertainment
• Locations – Coast, Parks, Civic Buildings, Sports Venues, Minster
• Scale – from some large scale (1,000’s) e.g. Festival of the Sky and Armed   
  Forces Weekend, the majority are medium scale (100’s) through to some very   
  bespoke and targeted (individuals/very small groups)
• Organisers – a mix of organisational governance arrangements from charities,  
  consortiums, voluntary and private business;
• Artistic content – we felt that the quality of artistic content was significant   
  which is substantiated in part by Arts Council England’s (ACE) willingness to   
  invest repeatedly in small and mid-scale activity. 
• Time of year – most events are predominantly summer based, justified by the   
 size of the audiences in attendance.  
 
• Larger scale events, specifically the Armed Forces Weekend and Grimsby Auditorium  
 shows, have significant wider profile and reach both locally and regionally. Festival of 
 the Sky has begun to create this type of profile, including at a national level having  
 been nominated in four categories at the UK Festival Awards 2019. The Open for 
 Culture programme must similarly be developed to achieve national profile for the   
 area.
Gaps in provision
• Collaboration – whilst there are some excellent events, most are being delivered   
 in isolation, even at a very localised level.  Adopting a more coordinated, collaborative 
 approach would have significant benefit.
• Link to place(s) – little event delivery is utilising the iconic spaces, buildings and  
 landscapes that is Grimsby.  For example, the Sea, Docks, Kasbah, Town Centre and   
 Freeman Street, acknowledging however that private landowner access permissions   
 do make doing so particularly challenging.
• Attendance – The benefits of collaboration should extend to marketing to avoid events 
 competing with one another for publicity.
• Scale – most events are delivered under Temporary Events Notices (TEN’s)    
 thereby limiting audience numbers to less than 500 people.

[PAGE 11]
11
North East Lincolnshire CouncilWider Programming 
Wider programming refers to the cultural activity taking place outside of one off or repeat 
events. It extends geographically beyond Grimsby town centre, incorporating all of NE 
Lincolnshire.  The tourism-based programme offers in Cleethorpes, centring on the summer 
season contribute significantly to this.
What works well
• Some collaboration, for example, the establishment and work of the CultureWorks   
 consortium is evidence that attempts at partnerships have been established.
• Evidence of emerging appetite for new cultural provision.  For example, at Docks Beers  
 and the Great Grimsby Food Fight in Freeman Street Market.  This also links to a clear  
 appetite for local heritage and a strong sense of identity that Grimbarians have with   
 their town.
• Some good facilities and infrastructure exist.  For example, the facilities and equipment  
 at the Grimsby Institute are second to none.  Also, companies such as Event Show  
 Support CIC have equipment and infrastructure that is currently used to support 
 international artists and is starting to be shared locally, where possible.
• Evidence of a willingness to support people entering the creative industries.  For 
 example, CultureWorks members actively seek to engage community involvement in  
 development and attendance at art events.  Additionally, Grimsby Institute provide a  
 range of free training workshops and offer space for local artists and designers to   
 work.
• Targeted and niche programming - Creative Start provide a clear example of how the 
 creative industries can play a role for positive social change.  An award-winning CIC, 
 they deliver abstinence-based recovery programmes using creative community 
 projects .
• Tourist offer programming – Cleethorpes demonstrates a strong, diverse and varied 
 tourism offer, including entertainment-based programming at Meridian Park.
 Gaps in provision 
• Some genres – For example Dance, Visual Art, Digital and Music are missing or at best  
 unrepresented.  Particularly notable is the lack of promotion that occurs where these   
 genres are happening on a smaller scale.  
• Funding partners – a limited portfolio of partnership funding exists.  Currently this is   
 limited mainly to ACE and NELC.  We found little evidence of support through Trusts   

[PAGE 12]
12
Magna Vitae and Foundations, Individual Donors or Corporate Sponsorship.
• Proximity to ACE National Portfolio Organisations – currently the closest established   
 NPO’s are in Hull and Skegness, which are a 50-minute and 65-minute drive    
 respectively from Grimsby. A natural gap, and thereby opportunity, exists in between.
• Night time economy – there appears to be little significant night time nor visitor 
 economy for the Grimsby town centre area.  Programming opportunities looking to  
 engage natural leisure footfall for cross engagement purposes are limited. A    
 significant amount of the wider programming that exists occurs in Cleethorpes.  
• Independence of the sector – the existing cultural sector is independent and quite   
 insular, with little evidence of it looking ‘outside’ of the sector of the place. A successful 
 European funded creative exchange programme at the Grimsby Institute is the  
 exception to this. CultureWorks describes itself as ‘North East Lincolnshire’s    
 independent arts and cultural sector’.
• Engagement strategies – event programming provision would be strengthened by   
 being developed and delivered ‘with’ communities as opposed to being ‘to’ them.  
 Activity, its content and the locations are often shaped around practical necessity, 
 commercial viability and artist preference.
• NELC has recently recruited to a new Strategic Lead for Culture at the Council which   
 will add strength to the future sector coordination and collaboration opportunities.
 
Local knowledge of events audience base
 
• There is limited evidence of local organisations capturing and sharing details of their  
 audience base. This does however occur where there is a funder requirement to do so,  
 as in the case of the ACE funded small and mid-scale programmes.
 
• Anecdotal evidence identified a suggestion that there is a preference towards not  
 sharing audience data as others in the same specific sector are perceived as 
 ‘competitors’.
 
• Audience demographic and participation data is predominantly sourced from the 
 national participation survey agencies as referred at section 1.2  
 Recommendations
Building strategic collaboration effectively will ensure a balance between providing efficiencies 
and maintaining an independence that uniquely distinguishes events and organisations.1.1.2

[PAGE 13]
13
North East Lincolnshire CouncilThe following key recommendations seek to build on the existing strengths in provision as 
well as address the provision gaps.
• Marketing – effective and coordinated marketing strategies are critical .  If the reach 
 of existing programmes is to be maximised and new audiences developed, marketing  
 and particularly digital engagement must be maximised through collaboration.
• Funding – a lack of funding partners is holding back development.  Every funder is   
 fundamentally different, bringing different priorities, perspectives and challenges.  The 
 role of culture in place-based regeneration appeals to a wide range of funders whose 
 involvement would undoubtedly enhance the development of the sector in Grimsby.  
 Training opportunities should be made available to enable the development of more 
 resilient and effective fundraising strategies.   This will enable access to key 
 fundraising areas currently untapped, particularly major donors, trusts and foundations, 
 corporate sponsorship and legacies.
• Engagement strategies – should be developed to create a better balance between   
 artistic focus and the needs of target communities.   All effective engagement 
 strategies are built as much ‘bottom up’ as they are ‘top down’ and seek to work with a  
 variety of stakeholders. 
• Outward perspective – whilst programming strategies should seek to be targeted  
 at a local level, an outward perspective needs to be achieved for Grimsby to 
 understand how it wants to position itself externally .  Collaboration, partnerships and 
 exchange initiatives are excellent ways to start to build this and enable more effective 
 engagement at a very local level.  
• Facilities and equipment – Specific elements necessary for cultural participation are   
 fundamentally expensive.  It is therefore imperative that where there are existing 
 facilities and equipment, they should be better utilised.

[PAGE 14]
14
Magna Vitae Review audience data and identify target audience(s) for the CDF-funded 
 programme 
It should be noted that, whilst this section of the report focusses predominantly on identifying 
the sections of the community audience that are currently disengaged; it perhaps goes 
without saying that the Open for Culture programme should be as much designed and 
promoted to appeal to existing engaged audiences as it will to new target audiences. In order 
to be successful in this endeavour, the greatest focus has to be on working with lower 
participation communities. Taking that approach will give greatest success in achieving the 
CDF’s aims to ‘use culture and creative activity to make places attractive to live in, work and 
visit’; and to ‘enhance creative skills’.
Similarly, a key success factor to securing new audiences is to involve those people, often 
through their trusted community representatives, in shaping and developing elements of the 
event programme. But, firstly, the new target audience needs to be identified.
The audience data most relevant to the objectives of the CDF has subsequently been 
assessed to enable the identification of its target audiences.  The most recognised data on 
arts and cultural engagement and participation has been examined in detail.  
Whilst comparisons have been made with regional, national and other specific CDF localities, 
new data that we have commissioned has been uncovered at a postcode level.
NB. A contract was issued locally to assist in the collation of this data.  This work was 
undertaken by Charlotte Bowen of Culture House.
 Findings
Taking Part  Survey
The Taking Part Survey ( Appendix 2 ) is the most widely recognised official continuous 
statistics on arts and cultural engagement among adults (16+) and children (5-15) in England, 
by DCMS.  
Taking Part is statistically robust to a regional level of geography, as opposed to a local 
authority level.  It is therefore restricted to Yorkshire and Humber and does not drill down to 
local authority level.
Taking Part does however examine data in a range of arts forms, unlike Active Lives Survey 
(see below) which focuses on headline participation and engagement levels.  
Data is taken from the most up to date Taking Part Survey 2016/17 and draws on 2010/11 
data to demonstrate trends over a six-year timeframe.  1.2
1.2.1

[PAGE 15]
15
North East Lincolnshire CouncilTable 1 Adult engagement in the arts in Yorkshire and Humberside, at least once in the last 
year
Category 2010/11 2016/17 Variance
Overall adult arts 
engagement72.3% 72.2% -0.1%
Adults visiting a 
museum or Gallery44.3% 48.4% +4.1%
Adults visiting public 
libraries33.6% 27.4% -6.2%
Taking Part Survey 2010/11 and 2016/17
Table 2 Adults arts attendance in Yorkshire and Humberside
Activity Yorkshire & Humber England Variance
Play/Drama 15.5% 21.4% -5.9%
Musical 14.2% 19.9% -5.7%
Carnival 7.2% 9.9% -2.7%
Classical Music Concert 5.2% 7.7% -2.5%
Jazz Performance 3.2% 5.0% -1.8%
Circus 2.7% 4.6% -1.9%
Contemporary Dance 1.7% 3.3% -1.6%
Taking Part Survey 2016/2017
Active People Survey
Commissioned by Sport England, the Active People Survey ( Appendix 3) measures adult 
participation (16+) in sport and active recreation in every local authority in England.  
 
One of the indices (NI11) measured is Engagement in the Arts.  More specifically it records the 
Percentage of adults who have engaged in the Arts, through attendance or participation for 
leisure purposes, at least three times in the past 12 months.  
NEL was ranked 13th lowest out of 354 local authorities in terms of participation.  
Participation was 32.4% against a national low of 29.0% (Newham), national high of 65.6% 
(Kensington & Chelsea) and a national average of 44.3%.  By comparison other locations 
performed as follows:

[PAGE 16]
16
Magna VitaeTable 3 Percentage of adults (16+) who have engaged in the arts
Location Population
NE Lincs 32.4%
Thames Estuary* 41.4%
Plymouth* 43.7%
Worcester* 42.3%
Wakefield* 35.9%
Hull 35.7%
N Lincs 35.5%
*Denotes CDF location  
Source Active People S urvey 2010
The Active People Survey remained the most up to date data at a local authority level for arts 
participation until it was replaced by Active Lives Survey, which published data in 2018.  Active 
People Survey data is used as a benchmark for comparison with related local authority areas, 
either geographically or through the CDF.  
Active Lives Survey
The Active Lives Survey  (Appendix 4) re placed Active People Survey in 2015 and is a 
partnership led by Sport England involving Arts Council England.  It examines participation in 
leisure and recreation activities including culture at a local authority level but does not go any 
deeper, i.e. to town or ward level.  
Between November 2015 and May 2017, the Active Lives Survey measured engagement by 
people aged 16+ in the following categories:
1. Arts Participation
2. Arts Attendance
3. Museums and Galleries Attendance
4. Use of Public Library Service
5. Creative or Artistic Dance

[PAGE 17]
17
North East Lincolnshire CouncilTable 4 Participation at least once in the last 12 months
Category Definition Grimsby National Variance
Arts Participation Doing creative, artistic, theatrical or 
music activity or craft27.3% 34.6% -7.3%
Arts Attendance Attending an event, performance 
or festival involving creative, artistic 
dance, theatrical or music activity42.9% 52.2% -9.3%
Museums and 
Galleries AttendanceAttended a museum or gallery 36.6% 46.5% -9.9%
Use of Public Library 
ServiceUsed a public library service 24.8% 35.0% -10.2%
Dance Participation in all forms of dance 19.6% 21.1% -1.5%
Source Active Lives Survey Nov 2015 – May 2017
The same data can also be contrasted against the other towns receiving CDF 
investment.
Table 5 Participation at least once in the last 12 months 
Category Definition Thames 
EstuaryPlymouth Worcester Wakefield Grimsby
Arts 
ParticipationDoing creative, 
artistic, theatrical 
or music activity 
or craft)38.2% 34.8% 36.0% 28.3% 27.3%
Arts 
AttendanceAttending an 
event, 
performance or 
festival involving 
creative, artistic 
dance, theatrical 
or music activity51.9% 51.6% 53.5% 44.2% 42.9%
Museums 
and 
Galleries 
AttendanceAttended a 
museum or 
gallery50.6% 36.5% 49.5% 40.6% 36.6%
Use of 
Public 
Library 
ServiceUsed a public 
library service36.7% 36.0% 40.3% 25.5% 24.8%
Dance Participation in all 
forms of dance23.7% 22.9% 19.8% 22.0% 19.6%
Source Active Lives Survey Nov 2015 – May 2017

[PAGE 18]
18
Magna VitaeAudience Agency
The Audience Agency.²  (Appendix 5) has developed Audience Finder, a national audience 
data and development programme enabling comparison and sharing of cultural insight 
between organisations. 
Audience Finder has been used to access Audience Spectrum, the most accurate tool the 
cultural sector has to target audiences.  There are 10 different Audience Spectrum profiles 
used to understand who lives in your local area, what your current audiences are like, and 
what you could do to build new ones. 
Those 10 profiles are summarised below, along with their level of engagement rating:
²The Audience Agency is funded by Arts Council EnglandSegment
[Engagement Rating]Segment Description
Heydays
[Lowest - 10]Older, less engaged, crafts, knitting, painting, sheltered housing, church group or 
community library. 
Group least likely to attend arts or cultural events. Tend to believe that the arts are no 
longer as important or relevant to them as perhaps they once were. Many live in sheltered 
or specially adapted accommodation for older people. Often excluded from many activities 
due to a raft of health, access and resource 
barriers. If they do engage this is likely to be participatory such as crafts, knitting, 
painting, reading and writing activities organised by their sheltered housing, church group 
or community library.
Kaleidoscope Creativity 
[Low -9]Mixed age, low level engagement, free local events, outdoor arts and festivals
A group characterised by low levels of cultural engagement. Often living in and around city 
areas where plenty of opportunities are within easy reach. Mix of ages, living 
circumstances, resources and cultural backgrounds. For many low incomes and 
unemployment can present barriers to accessing some cultural provision. Two thirds 
annually engage with more popular and accessible culture, some of this in the local 
community and outside the mainstream. Free, local events like outdoor arts, festivals and 
carnivals may appeal and so might popular offerings like musicals and music events.
Facebook Families
[Low - 8]Younger suburban and semi-urban, live music, eating out and pantomime
A younger, cash-strapped group living in suburban and semi-urban areas of high 
unemployment. Least likely to think themselves as arty, arts and culture generally play a 
very small role in the lives. Less than a third believe that the arts is important. Often go out 
as a family: cinema, live music, eating out and pantomime being most popular.
Up Our Street
[Low - 7]Modest in habits and means, popular arts, entertainment and museums
Often living reasonably comfortable and stable lives. A group that engage with popular 
arts and entertainment and museums and are also visitors of heritage sites. Many are older 
and have some health issues. Living on average or below average household incomes, so 
access in all its forms can be an issue. Characterised as modest in their habits and in their 
means, value for money and low-risk can be important factors in leisure decision making.

[PAGE 19]
19
North East Lincolnshire CouncilHome and Heritage
[Medium - 6]Rural areas and small town, day-time activities and historical events
A more mature group that is generally conservative in their tastes. Large proportion are 
National Trust members. Classical music and amateur dramatics are 
comparatively popular. While this is not a highly engaged group – partly because they are 
largely to be found in rural areas and small towns – they do engage with local cultural 
activity. Likely to look for activities to match their needs and interests, such as accessible 
day-time activities or content exploring historical events.
Trips and Treats
[Medium - 5]Mainstream arts and popular culture influenced by children, family and friends
While this group may not view arts and culture as a passion, they are reasonably 
culturally active, despite being particularly busy with a wide range of leisure interests. 
Tend to be comfortably off and living in the heart of suburbia. Children range in ages, and 
include young people still living at home. With a strong preference for mainstream arts and 
popular culture like musicals and familiar drama, mixed in with days out to museums and 
heritage sites. This group are led by their children’s interests and 
strongly influenced by friends and family.
Dormitory Dependables
[Medium - 4]Suburban and small towns interest in heritage activities and mainstream arts
A significant proportion of arts audiences are made up of this dependably regular if not 
frequently engaging group. Most live in suburban or small towns and show a 
preference for heritage activities alongside popular and more traditional mainstream arts. 
Many are thriving, well off mature couples or busy older families. Lifestage 
coupled with more limited access to an extensive cultural offer mean that culture is more 
an occasional treat or family or social outing than an integral part of their 
lifestyle.
Experience Seekers
[High -3]Highly active, diverse, social and ambitious, engaging with arts on a regular basis
Make up an important and significant part of urban arts audiences. This group are highly 
active, diverse, social and ambitious singles and couples and younger people engaging with 
the arts on a regular basis. Often students, recent graduates and in the early to mid-stages 
of their careers. Tend to live close to city centres, so have easy access to and attend a wide 
variety of arts, museums, galleries and heritage. Interests cover mainstream, 
contemporary and culturally diverse offers and attending is at the heart of their social lives. 
They are mostly in search of new things to do and have disposable income to spend on a 
variety of leisure activities like sports/arts memberships, visits to cafes, bars and 
restaurants. Typically, digitally savvy they will share experiences through social media on 
their smartphones.
Commuter-land 
Culturebuffs
[High -2]Affluent and professional consumers of culture
Affluent and settled group with many working in higher managerial and professional 
occupations. Keen consumers of culture, with broad tastes but a leaning towards heritage 
and more classical or traditional offerings. Often mature families or retirees, living largely in 
leafy provincial suburban or greenbelt comfort. A group willing to travel and pay for 
premium experiences, their habits perhaps influenced by commuting. Motivations are 
multiple, ranging from social and self-improvement, to the pursuit of learning opportunities 
for older children. Tend to be frequent attenders and potential donors
Metro-Culturals
[Highest -1]Prosperous, liberal, urbanites interested in a very wide cultural spectrum
Prosperous, liberal urbanite group. Often choose a city lifestyle for the broad cultural 
opportunity it affords. Interested in a very wide spectrum of activity, but many tend towards 
their own preferred artform or style. Apt to be active museum attenders but tend to be 
more engaged with the arts and many on a weekly basis. Represent good prospects for 
new, innovative work. Likely to be working in demanding but rewarding professions, 
including arts professionals, they are highly educated and have a wide variety of other 
interests.

[PAGE 20]
20
Magna VitaeSegment Profile 
Looking at the NE Lincs overall area profile, the three most prominent segments – of which 
66% of the NEL population belong - are:
1. Up Our Street: Lower Engagement
2. Facebook Families: Lower Engagement
3. Trips & Treats: Medium Engagement
When further examining the segments at postcode level, using the four postcode areas within 
Grimsby town centre (Victoria Street, West Marsh, East Marsh and Nunsthorpe) the segments 
in order of dominance in each are:
There is a clear pattern from the Audience Agency statistics showing that the lowest engaged 
segment areas across Grimsby - which are also the most dominant population segment 
types - are the ‘Heydays’, ‘Kaleidoscope Creativity’, ‘Facebook Families’ and ‘Up our Street’ 
categories.
Conversely, those segments that make up the current audience base for existing programmes 
are the ‘Experience Seekers’, ‘Trips and Treats’, ‘Home and Heritage’ and ‘Dormatory 
Dependables’. There are fewer of these segment types in the four Grimsby postcode areas. 
Additionally, there are no ‘Commuterland Culturebuffs’ nor ‘Metroculturals’ living in the Grims -
by postcode areas, although they are living in the NE Lincolnshire area and as such will form 
part of existing audiences.
Mosaic  
Mosaic is a cross-channel consumer classification system which segments the 
population into 15 groups and 66 types that helps us to understand an individual’s 
likely customer behaviour. 
The most prominent Mosaic groups in NEL are listed below, with 47% of the target population 
belonging to one of these three groups;
• J Transient Renters: Single people privately renting low cost homes for the short term;
• E Senior Security: Elderly people with assets who are enjoying a comfortable 
 retirement;DN31 1##
Victoria StreetDN31 2##
West MarshDN32 7##
East MarshDN33 1##
Nunsthorpe
Up Our Street (L) Facebook Families (L) Kaleidoscope Creativity (L) Facebook Families (L)
Facebook Families (L) Up Our Street (L) Heydays (L) Kaleidoscope Creativity (L)
Kaleidoscope Creativity (L) Heydays (L) Facebook Families (L) Heydays (L)
Heydays (L) Kaleidoscope Creativity (L) Up Our Street (L) Up Our Street (L)
Experience Seekers (H) Trips and Treats (M) Trips and Treats (M) Trips and Treats (M)
Trips and Treats (M) Dormitory Dependables (M) Home and Heritage (M)
Home and Heritage (M) Dormitory Dependables (M)

[PAGE 21]
21
North East Lincolnshire Council• I Family Basics: Families with limited resources who have to budget to make ends   
 meet.
Again, research was able to source data to a postcode level, using the four wards of Victoria 
Street, West Marsh, East Marsh and Nunsthorpe, resulting in the dominant mosaic profiles 
groups being:
• J Transient Renters: Single people privately renting low cost homes for the short term;
•       I Family basics: Families with limited resources who have to budget to make ends   
 meet;
• K Municipal Challenge: Urban renters of social housing facing an array of challenges.
Artsmark and Arts Award
Both Artsmark and Arts Award are run by Arts Council England, and are two separate 
programmes that work hand in hand;
• Artsmark celebrates schools that champion the arts and strive for excellence in their 
 provision.
• Arts Award is a range of unique qualifications for young people to support them to   
 grow as artists and arts leaders.
There are currently just nine Grimsby schools actively holding or working towards Artsmark 
(Appendix 6).  In addition, across the period 2013 – 2019 there were 431 young people who 
completed Arts Award qualifications (source IVE) 3.
 Summary analysis
The audience data is presented here in the description as referred by Arts Council England 
and is not deliberately written to appear negative. It simply highlights the context and 
starting point for CDF activity and the need for the programme to maintain a strategic focus 
built around target audiences.  
This information presents some plain and clear findings. As the data narrows towards 
Grimsby town centre, levels of engagement and participation become statistically much 
worse. For example, Yorkshire and Humberside performs worse against national benchmarks; 
NE Lincs worse still and Grimsby town centre worst of all.
Adult participation and engagement in the arts is amongst the lowest in the country and 
indeed lower than other CDF localities.
Findings also show that this is not a recent trend, instead participation and engagement has 
been behind for some time and isn’t yet showing signs of reversing. NE Lincs is 
out-performed almost entirely by each of the other CDF locations identified in table five 
examining participation across a 12-month period.1.2.2
3IVE is Arts Council England’s Bridge organisation that connects the cultural sector and the education sector in the Yorkshire and Humber region

[PAGE 22]
22
Magna VitaeWhen triangulating the audience data presented, specifically at Grimsby postcode level, and 
aligning to the aims of the CDF fund, the recommended target audiences can be identified, as 
outlined at 1.2.3 below.
What should be noted from the research data is the clear need to understand these target 
audiences.  The dominant segment and mosaic profiles change significantly  when 
examination moves from a local authority level to a postcode one.  This new data is hugely 
important, and success will hinge on the ability to effectively communicate and engage with 
these audiences in a collaborative way.
Magna Vitae has established relationships with professional artists and networks and with 
community stakeholders that are ‘ready to go’. The CDF award provides a very short window 
to develop something robust and resilient to deliver long term success.  Relationships are 
arguably more vital to this than the funding is.
 Recommendations 
To add to the existing audience base, and in order to best meet the four clear aims of the CDF 
programme, the data analysis leads us to recommended that the audiences to be specifically 
targeted are;
• Children and Young People - [Specifically, those who are in the Mosaic and Audience  
 Agency profile categories of low engagement]
• Families - [Specifically, those who are in the Mosaic and Audience Agency profile 
 categories of low engagement]
• Those living in the four communities surrounding Grimsby town centre
 [Being the most prevalent and least engaged audience from the Audience Agency   
 profiling]
This recommended approach is one that builds from the inside out, targeting and involving 
those most in need and furthest from engagement.  It will bring communities together, 
provide training opportunities and lead to more job creation.  It will help to accelerate the 
sense of place and perception change that is already starting to happen in Grimsby and help 
to build a sustainable, community wide, interest in culture.
Diversity and equality are crucial to the arts and culture because they release the true 
potential of an areas artistic and cultural talent – from every background. We want to help 
develop a programme that is diverse in its nature, offering unique opportunities for artistic and 
cultural collaborations and innovation that celebrate ‘diversity’. This will help us work 
towards the critical aim of meeting the ‘Creative Case for Diversity’.
New tourism opportunities will be provided initially on a small to medium scale that can be 
grown.  As Grimsby’s cultural landscape grows so too will the associated commerce that 
benefit from its success.  This will contribute to the night-time economy and the vibrancy of 
the town centre.  1.2.3

[PAGE 23]
23
North East Lincolnshire Council Determine the method and approach for consulting with the local community   
 in the development of the programme of cultural events through to 2021
 Approach and Context
The most effective method and approach for developing meaningful consultation with the 
local community is one that acknowledges the strengths and weaknesses behind Grimsby’s 
current cultural participation and engagement levels.
Sections 1.1 and 1.2 above detailed the strengths and opportunitiees from existing activity, 
gaps in provision and the impact this has on the performance of audience data.  Effective 
consultation provides the means through which target audiences can be identified and 
participation increased by addressing gaps in provision.  
The approach for consulting the local community has begun and must continue to;
• Remain focussed on the vision for the Open for Culture and beyond
• Engage with the community 
• Focus on the target audiences
• Be flexible and pragmatic
• Be strategically and community led
Vision - whilst the Open for Culture programme of events extends through to 2021, the  
success of Grimsby’s ‘Open for Culture’ project will be judged on the foundation it establishes 
for development and growth over the next five to ten years and beyond.  Consultation 
approaches must acknowledge that no quick fix exists and should always begin with the 
longer-term aim in mind.  
4Securing ACE NPO status or an ACE Creative People and Places (CPP) project should be 
clear goals of the programme from the outset.  These will only be achieved through the 
creation of an effective base, built on detailed insight and consultation.  The next phase of 
NPO applications begins in December 2020 whilst eligible CPP areas, of which Grimsby is 
one, can apply to the next available round.
Engage The Community – Grimsby and its wider community of North East Lincs is broad and 
diverse.  It consists of businesses, buildings, spaces, people and communities, some interested 
in culture, others not, some engaged and many not.  
Approaches must encompass this community with as much emphasis placed on consulting 
the non-engaged from outside the sector as those within.  This will undoubtedly be more 
time consuming, however limiting consultation to the sectors historic best practice will simply 
produce more of the same results.  Approaches to engaging the non-engaged must be built 
on listening and on the premise, that there are no wrong answers.  Barriers behind 
non-engagement are often complex and it is imperative that consultation is not deemed to 1.3
1.3.1
4NPO National Portfolio Organisations – are identified by Arts Council England as leaders in their areas, with a collective responsibility to protect and 
develop our national arts and cultural ecology.  They are funded in four year cycles.
CPP Creative People and Places - is a large-scale fund over a long period of time by Arts Council England and is about more people choosing, creating 
and taking part in brilliant art experiences in the places where they live.

[PAGE 24]
24
Magna Vitaejudge respondents’ opinions.
Focus on target audiences – consultation must maintain a focus on the key target audiences 
of the programme and the vision for its legacy if the biggest impact is to be achieved.  
Participation and engagement in Grimsby is amongst the lowest in the country.  Trying to do 
too much, too soon will only serve to dilute the impact.
Flexible – approaches must also maintain flexibility as the programme of events develops 
through to 2021.  Ongoing evaluation is paramount as barriers are broken down and, as 
sometimes happens, new ones inadvertently emerge.  
It is also important to avoid ‘one size fits all’ approaches, understanding that communities are 
collectives of individuals.  Whilst an open stakeholder forum may be effective for some, others 
will not entertain the thought of contributing in this way.  Grimsby has multiple ‘living areas’, 
with each distinct in its own way.  Effective consultation will work with each of these distinct 
identities.
Leadership – there are a range of stakeholders pivotal to the success of the Open for Culture 
programme operating across strategic and front facing levels.  Approaches to consultation 
must therefore gain this rounded perspective and must be as ‘bottom up’ as they are ‘top 
down’.
 Methods
The process behind approaches for consulting with the local community in developing its 
events programme will reflect the successes of our scoping work and our learning from this.  
Our methods have already begun to involve us;
Embedding ourselves in the community:
• Physically – establishing a permanent base within the community, ensuring that our   
 visibility is maintained as well as our accessibility;
• Practically – maintaining constant dialogue with stakeholders through attending   
 as much as possible, as often as possible. Our Centre4 office is our base, our    
 communities are where we go to work;
• Listening – listening to stakeholders, understanding challenges and opportunities from  
 not only their own perspectives but each other’s;
• Relationships – growing existing relationships, developing new ones and fostering   
 collaboration.1.3.2

[PAGE 25]
25
North East Lincolnshire CouncilEmbracing the whole community:
• Cultural Sector – ensuring there is full representation from the cultural sector
• Individuals– ensuring that everyone is treated as an individual, with unique ideas, 
 challenges and preferences.  It’s a collective of individuals 
• Tailored - approaches as people work in very different ways  
• Open mindedness – Art and creativity are very subjective areas and there is no right 
 or wrong.  Some things will be popular, others not and many will divide opinion.  Being  
 prepared for the risks this brings. 
 
Enabling Community Opportunities:
• Providing opportunities for the community to voice their opinions and experiences 
• Collaboration – the approach must also support collaboration not just locally but in 
 a regional and national context.  In establishing a cultural identity for Grimsby, it is 
 important to effectively collaborate with networks and localities working to address 
 similar challenges through culture and the creative industries. 
Building upon the community engagement programmes that already exist: 
• Community organisations such as East Marsh United (EMU) and Centre4 already have 
 successful programmes of community support and engagement. These are not 
 established primarily as ‘cultural development’ but as ‘community support’ initiatives.   
 Any cultural activity is secondary and often incidental. E.g. dance being incorporated as  
 part of an older peoples social group activity at Centre4, or EMU singing during their   
 Rutland Street clean up.
• These organisations are typically working with the same community that has been   
 identified to be the least engaged.
• Through these existing organisations and initiatives therefore, the opportunity to   
 introduce new activity, with the specific purpose of increasing engagement in cultural   
 pastimes, can be fostered.
• This builds new audience involvement and engagement from the bottom-up, creating 
 a ‘buy-in’ - a reason to participate.

[PAGE 26]
26
Magna Vitae Recommendations
The most effective approach and method for consulting with the local communities of 
Grimsby is not a complicated one but it is complex.  From its approach to its methods it 
centres on doing the basics very well.  This involves a 360° approach that is strategically 
driven, community centred, flexible and yet remains true to the objectives of the CDF.
Future engagement should have a clear focus around the who, what, when and how:
Who – centring on the key stakeholders, those from a strategic, engagement and 
participation perspective who can make the biggest difference .  
For example;
• Large employers – HLEP, Youngs Seafood Ltd, Orsted
• Places – ABP, Community Organisations (East Marsh United, Centre4), Freshney Place,  
 Top Town Market, Freeman Street Market, Lincolnshire Housing Partnership, Blundell   
 Park
• Education – NEL Music Hub, NEL Music and Performing Arts Service, The Grimsby   
 Institute, Cultural Education Partnership (CEP)
• Cultural Sector – Existing (CultureWorks members) and emerging (Docks Beers).
What  – the role of these stakeholders is in developing, and ultimately delivering, the cultural 
events programme, must be identified at the outset of phase two .
When – consultation and relationships with stakeholders have already been established with 
a view to growing throughout phase two and must be maximised ahead of the programme 
launch in 2020 . The programme launch itself should focus on community sector 
engagement at the very start of the project.  Community involvement must also be 
continuous, developing from learning and insights gained throughout the programme. 
How – Engagement must be both strategically and community led, remaining focused on 
the Open for Culure vision and therefore the needs of target communities .  It should remain 
flexible and pragmatic in order to engage local communities effectively.  The method that will 
best deliver this is one which embeds itself within a community and in a way that provides 
enough distance to maintain objectivity .  Magna Vitae is well positioned to perform this role 
well.1.3.3

[PAGE 27]
27
North East Lincolnshire Council Analyse existing outdoor and indoor venues in Grimsby town centre to
 establish their suitability for different types of cultural activity 
The indoor and outdoor venues and spaces in Grimsby town centre have been examined in 
detail.  Insights have been obtained using local programmers and operators to assist in 
gathering information from a practical perspective as well as a strategic one.  
Objectivity has been provided by gaining perspectives from international programming teams 
with track records of working in post-industrial towns.  This has enabled examination of 
Grimsby with a fresh pair of eyes yet with an understanding of some of the barriers to cultural 
engagement. 
Research has examined the traditional and obvious, such as Theatres and public buildings.  
However, it has also extended to the non-traditional, iconic backdrops that are inherently 
Grimsby, for example the waters of the docks and Victorian buildings, such as Victoria Mills 
and the Kasbah. 
 Findings
Indoor Venues 
Some indoor venues including Central Hall are familiar to Magna Vitae from a touring 
production perspective, having been used as part of our management of Garsington Opera’s 
Opera For All programme.  This toured to Grimsby working with local schools and 
culminating in a showcase performance at Central Hall.
Central Hall  – has been operated by a Charitable Trust since the late 1980’s which has 
secured £100,000 in recent years to maintain and improve this iconic building.  The flexibility 
of the venue and willingness to diversify its programme is highlighted by its CV which extends 
from world-famous Orchestra’s such as the BBC Symphony to heavy rock such as Iron 
Maiden to official Tribute Acts such as the Mersey Beatles.
Caxton Theatre  – located on Cleethorpes Road, close to Riby Square, a hugely vibrant and 
thriving part of the town when it was opened.  The Theatre is situated away from 
significant parking but is fully accessible including the provision of hearing loops.  A main 
auditorium is supported by bar performance area and is used by a Youth Theatre group as 
well as an adult membership performing an eight-play main house season.  Additional use 
includes small touring theatre and music. Ticket pricing is very reasonable.
Grimsby Auditorium  – Located on Cromwell Road, approximately 1.5 miles from the town 
centre, ‘the Auditorium’ is a flexible multi-purpose venue, with a capacity ranging from 1,275 
(seated) to 2,053 (standing).  Programming includes comedians, live concerts, theatre shows, 
sports events and tv broadcasts.  Parking is available for up to 350 vehicles with good links to 
public transport.  Pricing is dictated by promoters and is demand driven due to the 1.4
1.4.1

[PAGE 28]
28
Magna Vitaecommercial nature of such entertainment venues.
Town Hall – located close to the bus station, this iconic building has a variety of rooms and 
spaces to accommodate audiences from 30 to 350 people.  The building is 
accessible with parking available close by.  The variety of rooms provide multiple uses from 
concerts, exhibitions, seminars and TV programmes.  Hourly room hire rates range from 
£22.50 to £50.00.
Grimsby Minster  – Situated within easy walking distance of the town centre and railway 
station and a short walk from parking.  The main performance space can accommodate an 
audience of up to 300.  Most of the building is fully accessible, including the availability of a 
hearing loop.  Concerts, exhibitions and heritage tourism provide the predominant cultural 
content with admission prices ranging from free to £21pp.
Fishing Heritage Centre  – located adjacent to the start of Alexandra Dock the Heritage 
Centre was state of the art when it opened in 1991.  It appears to have changed little in this 
time but does host a series of temporary exhibitions throughout the year.  It maintains a 
modern feel and is accessible for all visitors with large public parking close by.  The exception 
is the historic Ross Tiger trawler moored outside which is not suitable to people with mobility 
concerns.  There is outdoor space adjacent to the building suitable for outdoor performance.
Grimsby Institute  – The Grimsby School of Art building includes a state of the art 200 seat 
theatre, dance and rehearsal studios and workshops spaces for jewellery making, fine art, 
sculpture, graphic design and textiles.  Events and shows take place in the theatre and 
exhibition spaces throughout the year, many of which are free.
Yardbirds Rock Club  – is a niche venue specialising in Rock music predominantly at 
weekends for audiences over 18 years old.  Located just off Freeman Street it sits between 
Central Hall and Caxton Theatre.  Its popularity is further evidence demonstrating the 
strength of niche genre specific activity that is operating in a successfully independent way, 
albeit on a relatively small scale.
Docks Beers, Top Town and Freeman Street Markets, and Freshney Place Shopping Centre  
are all examples of non-traditional and emerging cultural venues.  Each is in an area of 
significant regular footfall on a regular basis, with ample parking and other recreation   
provision close by.
Furthermore, other community-based venues are noted as having the potential to form hubs 
for community involvement work that could provide content for headline activities and events 
being showcased in the town centre.  These venues include West Marsh Community Centre, 
Centre 4, Grange Community Centre , and each is within easy walking distance of the 
communities they serve.

[PAGE 29]
29
North East Lincolnshire Council
11182
12
6
49
10
515
31
2
3
4
5
6
7
89
10
11
12
13
14
15Key
Caxton Theatre
Grimsby Auditorium
Grimsby Town Hall
Grimsby Minster
Grimsby Fishing Heritage Centre
Grimsby Institute
Yardbirds Rock ClubFreshney Place Shopping Centre
Top Town Market
Freeman Street Market
Docks Beers
Centre4
Grange Community Centre
West Marsh Community CentreGrimsby Central HallIndoor Venues
7 13 14

[PAGE 30]
30
Magna VitaeOutdoor spaces
The outdoor locations in Grimsby town centre provide an eclectic range of opportunities 
albeit not without challenge.  Most have not been used previously for any ‘large scale’ cultural 
events or activity.  Some are iconic Grimsby, some natural thoroughfares whilst others 
connect the town with its natural landscape and heritage - the water.  
They include;
• Minster Square
• Victoria Street
• Riverhead Square
• Town Hall Square
• Fisherman’s Wharf/Garth Lane
• Corporation Bridge/Victoria Flour Mill
• The Kasbah area
• Blundell Park
Additionally, the former flats site at Albion Street has very recently been suggested as another 
potential large outdoor space within the East Marsh area. Other locations may also be 
identified by stakeholders for consideration as phase two of the project develops.
Very little technical infrastructure exists currently in these areas, albeit this is a consideration 
of the planned developments to Minster Square.  This space therefore provides potential 
engagement opportunities particularly in summer months.
Minster Square aside, the most natural outdoor spaces for large scale events are exposed to 
the natural elements.  Lack of natural shelter and cold northerly winds are considerations in 
programme plans targeting large-scale audiences.
When examining the spaces from a geographic perspective it is striking as to how isolated 
they are.  For example, walking from Grimsby Minster to the entrance to the Kasbah is a 30 
minute and 1.5-mile walk.  
Blundell Park – whist we acknowledge that the home of Grimsby Town Football Club is in 
Cleethorpes, it is a purpose-built stadium with the infrastructure to accommodate several 
thousand spectators.  Through the hook of football, it provides a unique opportunity to engage 
some of the target audiences identified in Section 1.2.3.
Locations are dissected by water and major roads creating challenges for the natural 
transportation of festival audiences.  All of these create challenging and potentially 
hazardous ‘large scale’ event delivery.  However, that’s not to say it isn’t feasible, indeed very 
exciting opportunities exist.
The buildings and spaces above provide iconic backdrops that have the potential to draw 
locals and visitors.  They are inspiring and inherently Grimsby and can be molded to provide a 
backdrop for unique and high-quality cultural engagement.

[PAGE 31]
31
North East Lincolnshire Council
126
45
371
2
3
4
5
6
7
8Key
Victoria Street
Riverhead Square
Town Hall Square
Fisherman’s Wharf/Garth Lane
Corporation Bridge/Victoria Flour Mill
The Kasbah
Brundell ParkMinster SquareOutdoor Spaces
8

[PAGE 32]
32
Magna Vitae Conclusions
The provision of both venues and spaces in Grimsby is not lacking.  There are multiple venues 
with a diversity in programming and space, each with varying amounts of flexibility, creating 
options going forward.  
Also available is a multitude of venues traditionally not seen as places for cultural 
engagement, Community Centres and organisations located in the heart of housing 
estates already engaged with target audiences, albeit presently this is predominantly through 
non-cultural activity.  
However, on the whole venues are operating independently of one another.  In part this is the 
result of geography, with each venue forming at a separate point in the evolution of the town, 
resulting in a wide-ranging siting of locations.  Whilst most have parking available, what is 
relevant is they are not accessible on foot by most of the target communities identified within 
this report. 
This provides the opportunity to form a cohesive spectrum of engagement through three key 
areas;
1. Collaboration
2. Local capacity 
3. Communication
Each of these key areas are interdependent and will deliver increased engagement 
opportunities across multi-genres.  They will also foster development pathways where 
talented people have more opportunity to progress, as performers and in their careers.  
Importantly increased participation will increase much needed revenue for most venues, vital 
in achieving their sustainability.
This research provides a good picture of the existing provision and suitability of venues and 
spaces in Grimsby.  It reflects the parameters of the timescales provided for the scoping work 
and it is the intention to develop this piece of work throughout the Open for Culture project.
In summary, there is significant opportunity and potential to create a high impact, engaging 
events programme in any of these spaces, none of the identified locations create obstacles 
that cannot be overcome, programmed around, or technically managed. 
There are a number of venues in close proximity to East Marsh in particular (Central Hall, 
Yardbirds Rock Club, Docks Beers, old flats site at Albion Street) which could be a focus for 
community engagement and programming in that specific area.
The spaces that have the potential to create the most iconic impact are not all publicly 
accessible and may not be available. The need to secure third party, e.g. ABP, permission and 1.4.2

[PAGE 33]
33
North East Lincolnshire Councilsupport presents a significant risk to our collective ability to deliver the most impactful and 
iconic Open for Culture programme for Grimsby.
Event planning would take account of all factors to ensure the safety of all involved and to 
control the free movement of participants and audiences in spaces where area access 
restrictions may need to apply; such as any assurances needed to secure access to areas at 
the Port of Grimsby, for example. 
It should be noted that in its wider capacity the Magna Vitae facilitates and chairs the East 
Lindsey Safety Advisory Group on behalf of the District Council and is extremely 
familiar with and versed in the necessary requirements, securities and planning of large scale 
public events.
Photograph by Toni Coates

[PAGE 34]
34
Magna Vitae Research and identify international programmes and artists with potential ‘fit’   
 with a Greater Grimsby cultural offer 
During our period of research and community consultation we have had extensive discussions 
with various members of the cultural sector and importantly the wider community. We have 
also looked at local venues both indoor and outdoor and the existing programmes and 
sectoral experience and capabilities.
From this, we have concluded it would not be appropriate to simply commission ‘stand-alone’ 
artists to undertake set piece spectacular events but instead we should work to present 
spectacular performances, working with artistic strategies and structures, that establish a 
creative dialogue with Grimsby and its people. The reason for this approach is that we firmly 
believe it will have more sustainable engagement outcomes within the Town than an 
approach that’s is effectively ‘doing to’. All the artists companies (local, national and 
international) we have identified as possible partners have track records of working with 
communities in different levels and depths within their portfolios of programming. Section 1.8 
provides more information.
We also encourage any international companies we work with to provide the option of local 
cultural sector development opportunities and possible future partnerships leading to 
exchanges at varying levels, i.e. touring, career progression, educational exchange and 
economic benefits.
Our work with international partners must be for the benefit of the wider project and not just 
for the sake of working internationally, it must give value and perspective to the programme 
and have the principles, when it is commissioned as part of a potential programme, of:
• Excellence
• Profile development
• Community involvement
• Sector development; and
• Sustainable Collaboration 1.5

[PAGE 35]
35
North East Lincolnshire Council Prepare proposals for the curation and delivery of the Greater Grimsby 
 programme including e.g. the role of Artistic Director(s) 
The management of the overall project, curation of the festival and the community linkages 
will be led by Magna Vitae in partnership with Helsingor Theatre and through close 
cooperation with local NEL organisations and artists and with the clear aim to find the best 
and most suitable program for Grimsby. All the team, including those from Helsingor, have 
visited and worked extensively in Grimsby over the past eight weeks and have brought a vital 
fresh perspective to this work.
 Programme Management and Delivery
Magna Vitae will allocate its cultural programme team as is necessary, including James 
Brindle - Director of Development & Partnerships, as the key lead team to ensure the success 
of the Open for Culture events programme. This will be supplemented at the appropriate 
times of event design and delivery with our artistic partner.
Magna Vitae’s lead artistic partner is Helsingør Teater, Denmark. This relationship has been 
developed over 10 years and has a track record of success. The approach has always been 
one of planning events with the community in mind and the community being the first point 
of planning reference. The relationship between Magna Vitae and Helsingør Teater has had a 
record of success in the following projects.
• SEAs International (EU funded pan European festival)
• London 2012 Torch relay (UK, Danish, Swedish young people’s collaboration)
• Various exchanges (Passage Festival / SO Festival)
• Various international learning exchanges (Passage Festival / SO Festival), including   
 Culture House (NEL)
• Discussion with UK Ambassador to Denmark regarding bilateral cultural projects 
 (ongoing)
• NPO Award - SO Festival 2018–2021
•  On-going relationship with British Council in relation to on-going UK/Scandinavian   
 Cultural Partnerships
Our approach to the curation and delivery of a NELC Open for Culture festival will continue 
under the principles of this partnership; its ethos of community working and with the curation 
principles of: 
• Community impact
• Project value
• Artist ‘excellence’; and
• Economic value and impact 
These headline principles will be the starting point for our programming and curations 
proposals.1.6
1.6.1

[PAGE 36]
36
Magna Vitae Procurement and Budget Management
To ensure the most cohesive and efficient approach we recommend that, through the phase 
two project, Magna Vitae is contacted to be responsible for the management of budget and 
procurement arrangements for the festival programme elements.
Magna Vitae, as would be expected, will apply its own stringent Financial Regulations and 
Value for Money policies when procuring programme content and delivery contracts. This 
would require just the one procurement arrangement to be set up between Magna Vitae and 
NELC at the outset of phase two; and can be tightly managed through the drawing up of the 
phase two contract to ensure that NELC is fully satisfied with the procurement and budget 
management arrangements that Magna Vitae has in place. 
Procurement of event artistic content in a local authority context is inherently fraught with 
obstacles as a result of necessary local government Financial Regulations and Contract 
Procedure Rules. This invariably makes the purchasing of a programme of unique, often 
international, art performance contracts particularly difficult and very time consuming. Hence 
our recommendation of single contract arrangement with Magna Vitae that passes over these 
risks and responsibilities.
For ‘bought in’ content, the Artistic Director will choose work, companies and artists that best 
fit with the confirmed vision of the event, programme and festival. This work will be evaluated 
by Magna Vitae’s project team as to its cost benefit to the programme - including 
consideration of production costs and booking arrangement fees; and will then be 
programmed accordingly.
Content ‘commissions’ will be advertised by Magna Vitae’s team across relevant and 
recognised ‘sector’ websites. Advice from ACE and organisations such as Arts Professional 
ensures we keep commissioning methods up to date. Any commissioned opportunities will 
also be advertised locally, with a final decision for programme again sitting with the Artistic 
Director.
Production management; event safety management; marketing; event media and 
communications management; would again all be procured and managed by Magna Vitae. 
Through the phase two contract agreement regular project and programme updates would 
be provided to the Programme Board, including details of budget control and management, 
which would be administered by our in-house finance support team, lead by our Finance 
Manager, Sally Topham. Cash flow and budget draw down would be agreed in depth within a 
phase two contract. In being an NPO we are extremely familiar and well versed in the needs 
of reporting against ACE grant funding criteria.1.6.2

[PAGE 37]
37
North East Lincolnshire Council Artistic Partner Team
Outlined below is the background of Helsingør Teater and their delivery structure. It’s 
important to include this in the body of the report to emphasise the quality and track record 
of the partnership.  Helsingør Teater is a private non-profit association supported by Danish 
Arts Council and Helsingør Kommune. The chairman of the directing board is Ole Honoré. 
Jens Frimann Hansen is the Artistic Director of street theatre festivals PASSAGE Festival in 
Helsingør/Helsingborg (DK) and SO-Festival in Skegness (UK). Helsingør Teater also 
cooperates with many communities in Denmark and Sweden on creating artistic programmes 
of international street theatre. 
The programming is carried out by a team of three people (Jens Frimann Hansen, Trine Heller 
Jensen and Marie Viltoft Polli) assisted by Camilla Hasseriis Dietz and Kamma Siegumfeldt. 
All together the team covers high level professional competences in fields such as children’s 
culture, theatre, street theatre, visual arts, literature, architecture, philosophy, modern dance 
and literature. 
The team visits 10-15 international festivals every year and sees every year 300-500 
international performances thus offers the widest possible choice of international work. 
PASSAGE Festival is seen as one of the leading Nordic cultural institutions in audience 
engagement and audience development. Both Helsingør Teater and PASSAGE Festival have 
played a significant role in the transformation of Helsingør from being an industrial coastal 
town to becoming a cultural town, with the highest cultural spend and engagement of any 
town outside Copenhagen. The above again highlights the ‘natural’ fit between our team and 
the town of Grimsby as both Magna Vitae and Helsingor Theatre have been on a journey 
similar to the one that Grimsby is now embarking on.
Jens Frimann Hansen has been appointed for several positions of trust by both the Danish 
and Swedish Arts Council. Among others he is in the board of The Copenhagen Theatre, an 
umbrella organisation developing theatre in Copenhagen and from 2012-2016 he was the 
chair of a national committee for children’s theatre. 
It is important to highlight that, in order to ensure the greatest success of an event 
programme such as for the Open for Culture programme, the artistic team and Artistic 
Director in particular, need sufficient level of autonomy on programme and artistic content 
decisions as is necessary to achieve the programme outcomes. Once given a clear brief in 
terms of broad theme and outcomes the artistic team will make final decisions in conjunction 
with Magna Vitae’s cultural team lead on the programming content, locations and flow.1.6.3

[PAGE 38]
38
Magna Vitae Curation added value
Additionally, and to give much needed programme perspective, curation will include European 
exchange programs, residencies and internships for cultural professionals and amateur artists 
in Grimsby. Helsingør Teater is part of a network with the festival Crateres sur Face 
(https://cratere-surfaces.com/) in France and PASSAGE Festival (www.passagefestival.nu). 
These networks will be utilised to plan and develop the exchanges.
There will also be opportunities for business, educational, trade and the tourism sectors to 
take part in exchange projects within Denmark. These programmes will look at shared 
learning in relation to the impact culture can have on coastal towns and their communities. 
We propose that an initial exchange learning visit would take place in January / February 
2020.1.6.4
Photograph by Toni Coates

[PAGE 39]
39
North East Lincolnshire Council Develop options for a programme launch with initial event(s) in the winter of   
 late 2019, early 2020
We have looked extensively at a ‘programme’ for a launch event in relation to the ‘Open for 
Culture’ project. Areas of research and consideration have included:
 The season and seasonal related weather statistic including (precipitation 
 levels, evening temperatures, mean windspeed and gust averages)
• The weather statistics do lead us to have to consider that the environment for an 
outdoor street theatre event from October – March would be at high risk of significant 
weather effect. In addition, the conditions that the weather statistics suggest mean 
that the conditions for the audience would likely be unpleasant. This would have an 
impact on an audience not used to street theatre having an experience that could 
affect their view on future attendance.
 Levels of local audience in consideration of current engagement levels and   
 linked to 1.7.1 above
• With the short timescales and a local audience of those not significantly engaged with 
cultural programmes it is highly likely to be difficult to develop an audience for a  
winter performance without meaningful prior local audience development   
programmes. 
 Performance locations
• There are some excellent and inspiring locations within Grimsby for all scales of 
street theatre and cultural performance and presentation, but due to the coastal  
geography these, linked to point 1.7.1, do make winter options challenging and of  
high risk.
 Possible audiences from ‘outside’
• There is currently no significant ‘tourist’ element to Grimsby’s economy. It is not  
anticipated that a winter festival could attract nor develop this and with   
associated cancelation risks could have significant reputational risks for the short 
term and indeed the longer term of the Open for Culture project. 
 Availability of suitable content
• There are available shows and performances that would work within a ‘winter’ season 
but due to the weather risks could have the significant financial and reputational risks 
alluded to previously. The project benefit against risks must be considered.1.7
1.7.1
1.7.2
1.7.3
1.7.4
1.7.5

[PAGE 40]
40
Magna Vitae Alternative Launch Proposals 
• There is a clear indication within the project application of an Open for Culture launch 
event. We totally understand and endorse the need for a programme launch.
      It is critical that this launch sets the tone on how the Council will meet the objectives of      
      the CDF funding and indeed the Councils own ambitions with the cultural and heritage   
      framework 2018-2028:
 1) use culture and creative activity to unlock economic growth and productivity; 
 2) use culture and creative activity to make places attractive to live in, work and visit; 
 3) strengthen local leadership in culture and/or the creative industries; 
 4) enhance creative skills. 
• Our proposals below recommend a different approach to this launch that will meet the 
aims of the funding and those ambitions of North East Lincolnshire Council:
• Launch in March 2020;
• Launch the programme as a public / media event  with a significant Council / 
DCMS / ACE delegation, publicising the main two events for 2020 & 2021 - This 
will create national sector recognition of the Grimsby CDF Programme and also a  
significant platform to announce the critical nature of working with the whole  
community in making this programme a success;
• Launch a programme of local audience development partnerships  with   
community groups within Grimsby i.e. Centre4, East Marsh United, Cause 4 - This 
is critical in achieving the aim of ‘use culture and creative activity to make places 
attractive to live in, work and visit’. The widest possible depth of community  
cultural development is needed. The local cultural sector could be engaged, as part 
of the delivery team as outlined at 1.6.2 and 1.6.4, to support this process and to 
begin building sustainability;
• Launch a programme of small to mid-scale artist commissions  looking to find 
local content for Festivals in 2020 & 2021 – It is our firm belief that increased 
investment in the current and future local sector and creative talent is needed at 
the earliest point, giving them the stage on which to excel. Again, we believe this 
is needed to embed the CDF aim of ‘use of culture and creative activity to unlock 
economic growth and productivity’;
• Launch of EU internships for festival work  – This will enable work with   
organisations such as Grimsby Institute in giving local students direct access to 
points of career development opportunity; and will enhance opportunity within the 
local cultural sector for economic growth via training and learning;
• Artistic element – we will have an artist element that reflects our community 
ethos in planning but is of high quality. The scale and type are yet to be   
established.1.7.6

[PAGE 41]
41
North East Lincolnshire Council• Proposed launch event budget  
It is proposed that, rather than allocate CDF grant funding to a risky winter launch festival, the 
grant monies would instead be put towards this launch programme, thereby securing better 
value for money. An indicative funding allocation for the launch event is given in breakdown 
as:
• Room, production, seating presentation = £3,000
• Artistic Commission [2 x £15,000] = £30,000
• Artistic Commission [4 x £2,500] = £10,000
• National Arts Fundraising School Bursaries       
[3 x £2,149 plus up to £350 travel] = £7,497
• Artistic programme content = £20,000 to £30,000
• Total budget range = £70,497 to £80,497
Note
• These are commissions to be announced at an early stage to bring focus to the 
programme and to allow for more ambitious individual commissions. There will be 
further local commissions and working either directly by local artists or involving 
them in national / international commissions.
• The National Arts Fundraising School Bursaries are designed to broaden the base 
of the approach to funding within Grimsby and to give greater funding options and 
perspectives. These should be aimed at both the cultural sector and wider  
members of the community.
• The artistic programme element will be confirmed after further discussions. The 
preferred option is a commission locally, but this needs deeper thought and a 
company may need to be ‘brought in’ to achieve the desired impact. 

[PAGE 42]
42
Magna Vitae Prepare an outline cultural programme for delivery during 2020 and 2021 
 Event Theme Development
The culmination of the research and findings presented in this report points to a myriad of 
opportunities to create a truly ‘place shaping’ event programme for Grimsby as part of the 
CDF Open for Culture programme. Considered in conjunction with the aims of the CDF  
programme, the ambitions within the NELC Cultural and Heritage Framework and the  
elements that Grimsby as a town identifies with, there are some clear elements of place that 
should and could be woven as embedded themes into the programme for 2020 and 2021. 
In doing so the opportunity to identify an overarching theme, and subsequently a brand and 
‘story’ for the CDF programme needs to be considered. This provides a robust brief upon 
which the artistic team can programme artist and cultural programme content; and will 
become Grimsby’s cultural ‘beacon’.
We strongly believe that the approach to the festival should be an ‘umbrella’ branded festival. 
This would create a festival brand that underpins, not only the focal point of the programme, 
but also incorporates existing events that can showcase current good work that would benefit 
greatly from being marketed through the overarching branded festival approach.
It is critical that the marketing associated with Grimsby’s Open for Culture project is linked 
to the overall branded programme and the ‘centrepiece’ festival event (1.8.2). This marketing 
must include all levels of focus from local to international. Digital marketing would be a 
critical element moving forward.
 Local proposals and concepts  
We have made clear, through our findings, the need for community involvement at all levels. 
Not just in producing and delivering work but also participating in work and attending events. 
This equally importantly creates the environment for local sustainability, capacity building and 
ongoing development beyond the CDF programme.   
A number of local ideas, proposals and concepts have been provided to us during the scoping 
phase from the CultureWorks consortium and others, some of whom are members of 
CultureWorks. Those proposals, some of which we have been asked not to share, form part of 
the emerging ideas for the launch and main event programmes. All will be considered further 
in the shaping of the events programme during phase two and will flow from the event theme 
development.
One specific proposal received from CultureWorks, which we have considered in detail and 
feel necessary to refer to specifically advocates for a ‘Place-Making Festival for Grimsby’ as 
part of the Open for Culture programme. Of course, the whole aim of the CDF programme 1.8
1.8.1
1.8.1.1

[PAGE 43]
43
North East Lincolnshire Councilis about ‘place shaping’. CultureWorks’ festival idea is ‘inspired by [Grimsby’s] unique heritage 
and place themes’ and is based initially on a Danish and Scandinavian artistic content theme 
building upon and telling the story of one of the legends of Grimsby’s origin the story of ‘Grim 
and Havelock’. The proposal, as written, advocates a ‘main winter weekend programme’, which 
from our professional viewpoint we have already commented in section 1.7.
This festival proposal identifies a key potential programme theme opportunity namely that of:
•  ‘Origins’ – local legends, myths and links to Denmark/Scandinavia
There is a clear and strong opportunity here for community led piece(s) of work, linked 
through the launch event audience development partnership and/or local artist commissions 
opportunities, that would engage with the target audiences – children, young people and their 
families; and indeed, involve both cultural and creative industries. This could be a potentially 
strong piece of community-based event programme content. 
There are significant opportunities to create wider international links, including with 
Scandinavia as part of the programme curation which, to be truly place shaping, we strongly 
advocate.
 Other themes flowing from the consultation
Through both our research and the many local conversations other themes and stories also 
shine through.
• ‘Heritage’ – fishing and associated industries and places.
 Grimsby’s heritage as a fishing port and all the associated heritage assets, the 
 Kasbah area, Ice Factory etc have a significant place in Grimsby’s story of life and  
 place. Themes around heritage are therefore an important potential element of a   
 festival story. They will allow for positive reflection and discussion on Grimsby’s past  
 with extremely strong local engagement which is firmly supported through our 
 research and consultation. Like ‘origins’, the ‘heritage’ theme is an exceptionally strong 
 area for local community engagement.
• ‘Food’ – sea food in particular
 Grimsby is nationally and internationally renowned for its food and specifically food 
 linked to the Sea. This presents an exciting platform to increase focus on Grimsby as 
 a town that is still a key area for the food industry. The strong ‘new’ culture around food 
 offers exciting and creative opportunities to link food within the project’s main 
 programme. This theme is a strong opportunity for local businesses to engage with   
 very positively; and can strongly link community and economic development.1.8.1.2

[PAGE 44]
44
Magna Vitae• ‘Future’ – renewable energies, environmental profile and new industry
 Grimsby has huge significance with the renewable energy sector through its 
 relationship with Ørsted and wind-turbine manufacture - a modern day link with 
 Denmark/Scandinavia. The renewable industries and other industry development also 
 form a key part of the ‘Town Deal’ – a forward looking economic investment 
 programme. There are opportunities here around important environmental messages, 
 whereby artist and community connected works can be used to impress upon this  
 issue. This again will be an excellent opportunity to engage with business, the  local 
 communities and visitors.
 An all-encompassing event brand theme and ‘story’
There is so much opportunity and scope in the four theme areas identified above that 
focussing on one specific element of this alone would not tell the whole story of Grimsby’s 
place culturally. The Open for Culture festival brand should therefore seek to identify with a 
theme that captures the essence of all these elements. A dynamic and eclectic mix of 
programming and content can subsequently be developed that would never be exhausted 
of new, different and relevant programme content, becoming the cornerstone for Grimsby’s 
sustainable programme of truly place shaping cultural event content.
 Magna Vitae’s suggestion for event brand, theme and timetable
In exploring a principle theme of the festival, we value the CultureWorks proposals around a 
Grimsby Festival and fully endorse the idea of looking at Grimsby origins from initial 
Scandinavian settlers. This work from Grimsby origins does lead to being able to work with 
legends and stories that would strongly engage an audience. 
 
We also feel that the principle theme should be expanded to include all the community 
advocated wider ‘heritage’, ‘food’ and ‘future’ elements. These three staple points and the point 
of Grimsby ‘origin’ leads firmly to one single theme that connects them all to one strong, 
coherent and inspiring theme - that of the SEA.
All these elements connect to the Sea and its constant presence around and with Grimsby. 
The Sea will continue to be a focal point for Grimsby in the future remaining a key driver to 
its economy and prosperity. A Festival of the Sea is an inspiring and strong focal point for a 
festival and one that will not only link directly to the community but will resonate with others 
national and internationally.
 
The ‘Festival of the Sea’. 
Our suggestion therefore is that the branded festival approach should have a theme of ‘The 
Sea’ which would have a significant impact on the program design as it develops. This 
potential focus to effectively reconnect Grimsby to the sea has come through extremely 
clearly in our consultation. Grimsby is linked to the sea. Artists and performances working 
with/on/at the sea would form a major part of the program.1.8.1.41.8.1.3

[PAGE 45]
45
North East Lincolnshire Council1.8.2In terms of timetabling, the most suitable and impactful time period for a ‘Festival’ would be 
the month of June. This is for several key reasons, in that the dates fit with the wider current 
event’s ‘calendar’ and weather statistics indicate fewer possible weather impacts. Similarly, 
June sits outside of but immediately preceding the main summer holiday period and 
therefore presents the best opportunity for maximising economic benefit in the pre-season 
shoulder month.
A participatory program of murals and community sculptures telling the story of Grimsby will 
be considered as part of the programme.
 The Centrepiece Event
The main focal point of the CDF funded festival would be a 3-day ‘centrepiece’ event. The 
most suitable date for the centrepiece would be 12th-14th OR 19th-21st June 2020 and the 
equivalent dates in 2021. These dates compliment other key local festivals and events within 
June such as the North East Lincs Arts Society annual exhibition (est. 12th June), Grimsby 
Institutes Students Festival (tbc) and Armed Forces Day (27th June). This proposed date 
needs to be firmed up at the earliest opportunity once guidance is secured from local Events 
Safety Advisory Group representatives, including NELC and other key public service agencies. 
The festival will build up an artistic infrastructure around central streets and squares in 
Grimsby, with detours to iconic more peripheral places such as Grimsby Minster and, ideally, 
the Dock Tower and the Kasbah. These iconic and historical places lend themselves to high 
quality international artistic performances and will have strong local resonance.
The festival will define a central ZONE within the heart of Grimsby town centre that will be the 
hub of the programme. Most of the festival centrepiece weekend will be in the outdoor 
environment and would link, use and showcase other buildings within Grimsby. The 
community cultural engagement work will certainly be based within the buildings the 
community have affinity with and experience of, thus ensuring the familiarity brings 
confidence of their initial interaction with our teams.
The festival will also work with performances that will explore certain sites outside of the 
zone. This in order to bring forward stories from hidden places in Grimsby.
The artists of greatest interest are those that establish a ‘dialogue’ with Grimsby’s places, its 
iconography and the minds of the people living in Grimsby.
In programming the festival, the ambition is to balance a culturally unique event and create 
opportunities where people from every community in Grimsby can take part. In programming 
we will work from a centre-peripheral structure where development work, micro 
performances and participatory workshops will take place in cooperation with local 
institutions, associations, groups and artists. This work will take place directly within 
communities and lead to them being directly involved in the work within central Grimsby.

[PAGE 46]
46
Magna Vitae Programme proposals and fit with budget
To build up on our recommendations we have begun to identify and collate a schedule of 
artists and programme development content with ‘fit’ to the Grimsby programme and the 
emerging theme ideas.
We will work with the local community, artists and producers to develop and deliver work that 
has inspired them creatively and will meet the five principles of commissioning within the 
programme:
• Excellence
• Profile development
• Community involvement
• Sector development
• Sustainable Collaboration
The artists and companies, including the possible local sector recommendations, will be 
confirmed within phase two. There needs to be considerable additional artist and production 
visits in order to confirm exact venues and costings - this is perfectly normal at this stage of 
the project.
In addition, with some of these international companies, it is not simply a case of booking a 
performance and paying a fee that will determine their participation in a programme. Artists 
of this ilk are selective in deciding when and where they will perform. Significant relationship 
development is required to secure the curation of a programme with the desired content. 
Magna Vitae and the artistic team are experienced in this process and will continue the 
rela- tionship building to develop the programme for 2020 and 2021.
Not all of those being identified would be featured in a programme until the above processes 
have been completed indeed, it is unlikely that, together, not all can be afforded. Programme 
choices must work financially and maintain wider principles of community involvement.  In 
addition, some elements may only be possible to secure financially when working with 
partnership funders as they would otherwise be unaffordable.
We have prepared a separate initial suite of identified potential artists and companies that 
could form part of the 2020 and 2021 centerpiece CDF Festival. These are companies that 
fit within a theme of water and industrial towns and thus give a strong and relevant flavour of 
programme and will be circulated at the next Programme Board discussion.1.8.3

[PAGE 47]
47
North East Lincolnshire Council Scope the programme of activity to build capacity amongst local delivery 
 organisations and identify mechanisms to embed them in the delivery of the 
 programme 
 Introduction
Throughout this report we have highlighted current strengths alongside our observations 
of identified areas of potential for local capacity growth. This section draws together those 
observations and summarises the solutions that are proposed. Additional depth is provided to 
expand and explain the opportunities for capacity building through this, the ‘New 
Commissions’ element of the Open for Culture programme, - acknowledging that skills 
development, business support and capacity building is a separate main strand of the CDF 
project through the ‘New Horizons’ programme. Opportunities exist for the New Horizons 
programme to support the delivery of the learning and capacity building identified here; and 
these two programme elements should be taken forward through a connected approach. This 
is further expanded at section 1.9.7
It is important to note that capacity building applies not just to the most developed parts of 
the local sector, such as those organisations that make up the CultureWorks consortium, but 
also to the wider cultural sector and to others including the community and education sectors. 
It should also not be overlooked that capacity building must extend through to new business 
start-ups and to the emerging talents that are being created through the work of, for example, 
the Grimsby Institute. Here again the New Horizons programme is intended to support this.
Magna Vitae has a track record of working, not just, with communities but also leading within 
communities and helping them to develop. This has helped with our own capacity building 
through to ACE NPO status and has been recognised through our work with the ACE and 
the Local Government Association, where we are engaged to support their ‘Cultural Services: 
Leadership Essentials’ programme at the Warwick Business School.
Our approach is to work in positive partnership with the local cultural sector - 
professional, amateur and voluntary. Magna Vitae already has development links with the 
local sector through our work managing the Coastal Cultural Network and our North East 
Lincolnshire Arts Society connection. From our research and conversations, it is clear that the 
area’s strength is its local producers that currently deliver small scale much-loved work 
within the area. In short, we will work to ensure that the sector’s capacity to deliver place 
change through culture within Grimsby continues to develop.
 Artistic Capacity Building
To create a step change through this programme, artistic capacity building is an important, 
mutually recognised area for development. Indeed, it is a central element to the CDF ‘Open 
for Culture’ bid submission. Artistic capacity development is needed to:
• enable the sustainable delivery of different cultural activities, principally in events with  1.9
1.9.1
1.9.2

[PAGE 48]
48
Magna Vitae multiple company partnerships and/or of large-scale audience;
• create partnerships and networks with a wider range of international companies, 
 developing wider perspective and exchange opportunities which are critical to have   
 sustainable cultural economic impact. 
With that in mind, through our approach to the development of a proposed artistic 
programme for 2020 and 2021:
• We have identified and selected artists and artistic companies that embrace 
 community engagement leading to capacity development based upon excellence,   
 place profile development, community involvement, sector development and 
 sustainable collaboration. Many of the proposed programme artists will develop 
 capacity through their direct engagement with the community and local sector 
 organisations;
• The proposed programme launch in March 2020 includes the announcement of up  
 to six, small to mid-scale artist ‘open call’, commission opportunities with the aim   
 of finding locally developed content for the Festivals in 2020 & 2021. The specifics of  
 this are outlined at 1.9.7 below and will be developed during the programme curation.   
 By its very nature this approach will involve the local area in the learning that comes  
 from being a part of such a large and impactful centrepiece festival; 
• The programme launch in March 2020 will itself include an artistic element. This  
 would be a ‘headline’ performance that we would hope, time allowing, could be 
 developed by the local sector. It is our intention to discuss this with an identified local  
 artist at the earliest opportunity as phase two commences.
• The Centrepiece Festival Event Cultural Programme will include solicited local 
 community developed pieces. We have already identified a small number of local 
 organisations to whom we would make direct approaches to create programme 
 content for the 2020 and 2021 events, these are in addition to the ‘open call’ 
 opportunities.
• Subsequently, significant additional project budget will be allocated for programme  
 ‘open call’ and solicited commissions through to 2021. These will be heavily 
 locally promoted, following ACE best practice guidance with final programming 
 decisions being made by the Artistic Director.
• Furthermore, there would be curation added value such as European exchange 
 programmes, residencies and internships for cultural professionals and amateur artists  
 in Grimsby; and opportunity for work shadowing with the artistic team. More detail on  
 this is provided at 1.9.7 below.
 Cultural Leadership Capacity Building
Through our consultation, engagement and research work we have identified a key issue that 
we feel presents a significant obstacle to scalable ‘place change’ capacity building for the 
area. Some current relationships and local tensions are inhibiting the cohesiveness of the 
wider cultural sector and community. The approach to sector directional influence being taken 
by a small number of local sector representatives risks alienating other current and emerging 1.9.3

[PAGE 49]
49
North East Lincolnshire Councilindividual talents, organisations and representatives which could undermine the areas 
potential to create real step change in its place shaping through a shared cultural vision.
From our direct experience from consulting in the area we acknowledge that is a sensitive 
issue, but we feel that it does need to be highlighted, acknowledged and overcome - doing so 
will strengthen the programme outcomes and forward leadership. 
We strongly believe there is a need for an overarching ‘strategic’ cultural body that brings 
together not just the local cultural sector, but also local business, educational sector, local 
government, and key community organisations. We would strongly encourage the Council to 
quickly progress to create a wider strategic body, perhaps in the form of ‘Culture Forward’, to 
help overcome these tensions and create a new area wide shared voice, vision and direction 
for culture.
 Culture Forward
As a new cultural leadership body, Culture Forward could be evolved from the existing CDF 
Programme Board to guide the Open for Culture programme and subsequently oversee, with 
Magna Vitae’s support if needed, the process of creating a sustainability for culture within 
Grimsby.
Establishing a wider group, supporting and advocating for culture in Grimsby, will ensure that 
culture is discussed in wider areas of planning and development of Grimsby; and will create a 
cohesive and single strong direction for future growth. The group members will have 
culture in mind when having various strategic conversations at national and indeed 
international level and again this will help develop not only possible options of sustainability, 
but also wider partnerships.
Our proposal therefore would be that, to maintain the strength and momentum of the Open 
for Culture Programme through its Programme Board, a wider representative ‘Culture 
Forward’ body is established from the programme board.
Additional membership and representation would need to be solicited as part of the phase 
two project, which we are confident can be achieved from the relationship building we have 
undertaken as part of our work so far; and in acknowledging the Council’s previous approach 
to developing its Culture and Heritage Framework 2018-2028.
An outline set of potential Terms of Reference and aims of ‘Culture Forward’ include: 
To provide strategic direction and leadership to the cultural sector by:
• Breaking down barriers among organisations in the cultural sector
• Continuing to build links between the cultural sector and other sectors (voluntary,
 charitable, health, private and emerging Cultural Education Partnership
• Developing a stronger and widely-shared vision for the sector within Grimsby
• Providing a coherent local, regional and national voice for culture
• Positioning culture as an economic driver and force behind community cohesion, 1.9.3.1

[PAGE 50]
50
Magna Vitae identity and civic pride
• Encouraging and facilitating collaboration at all levels to the betterment of Grimsby   
 and its reflection nationally
• Creating the right environment for culture to thrive, participation to grow and 
 audiences to be more engaged
• Agreeing the mechanism for cultural development sustainability beyond the CDF 
 programme, such as the possible development of an ACE National Portfolio 
 Organisation (NPO) or a Creative People and Places (CPP) partnership.
To build capacity by:
• Sharing good practice and expertise
• Nurturing artists, venues, and creative businesses
• Developing the capacity of local organisations to deliver cultural content and also their  
 ability to fundraise from ‘non’ traditional sources
Oversee the development of the cultural programme by:
• Better coordinating and raising the profile, engagement and calibre of existing cultural  
 activity
• Delivering vibrant cultural programming – either directly delivered; delivery by partners  
 or commissioning delivery in the sector.
• Guiding the forward programme for NPO or CPP as that develops.
We are confident that in supporting and progressing this approach to fostering local sector 
sustainability, local organisations can be further developed, supported and upskilled to find 
ways to unlock their full potential.
Leadership capacity building is also proposed to be supported by our creating opportunities 
for business, educational, trade and the tourism sectors to take part in exchange projects 
within Denmark. These programmes will look at shared learning in relation to the impact 
culture can have on coastal towns and their communities. We propose that an initial exchange 
learning visit would take place in January/February 2020.
We also note that NELC has recently recruited to a new post of Strategic Lead for Culture, 
whose role it will be to establish this type of wider, strategic cultural partnership approach 
and we will work closely with them as required, through the Open for Culture programme to 
support this work.
 Community and Learning Capacity Building
To build the widest possible engagement and ownership of culture, the widest possible depth 
of community cultural development is needed. The learning and capacity building 
opportunities also therefore need to extend to the wider community.1.9.4

[PAGE 51]
51
North East Lincolnshire CouncilWe have initially advocated for capacity building in this regard through the proposed new 
programme launch event including the announcement of:
• a programme of local audience development partnerships with community groups  
 within Grimsby i.e. Centre4, East Marsh United, Cause 4. The local cultural sector could  
 be engaged, as part of the delivery team as outlined at 1.6.2 and 1.6.4, to support this   
 process to begin building sustainability;
• EU internships for festival work will enable work with organisations such as Grimsby  
 Institute in giving local students direct access to points of career development 
 opportunity; and will enhance opportunity within the local cultural sector for economic  
 growth through training and learning.
Additionally, the need for community involvement at all levels cannot be overemphasised. Not 
just in producing and delivering work but also participating in work and attending events. This 
importantly creates the environment for local sustainability, capacity building and ongoing 
development beyond the CDF programme.
The programme will give local students the opportunity to enhance their learning through 
internship work on festivals within Europe; and by enabling them to submit to the ‘open call’ 
commissions as development opportunities. We would significantly develop our team’s links 
to the Grimsby Institute ensuring we involve their students, their work and events within the 
festival ‘brand’.
To quote the feedback from the Grimsby Institute ‘ Our young people need to be central to 
establish and maintain a foothold. Strategy and planning could and should include the leaders 
of the future as well as those who are established. …. we should be garnering the potential 
in the wealth of young talent at both the Grimsby Institute and Sixth Form colleges locally in 
all aspects from planning and management to delivery. This would help to generate a belief 
from our young people that change is possible and that this ‘place’ is as much theirs to shape 
for their future. Done ‘with’ not ‘to’ .’
The New Horizons skills development strand is key to achieving this and should be connected 
at the earliest opportunity in to this, the New Commissions programme.
 Funding and Fundraising Capacity Building
Funding and fundraising are key elements of a sustainable model for place shaping cultural 
development and it is important to have a diverse and varied future funding profile. 
Currently locally, Arts Council England and the Council are funders of first resort. In order 
to develop more sustainable financing within the sector locally and to broaden the range of 
funding partners, the area would benefit from a heightened funding perspective and 
awareness.
The National Arts Fundraising School (NAFS), delivered by The Management Centre - a glob -
al specialist in cultural funding https://www.managementcentre.co.uk, provides advice, guid -1.9.5

[PAGE 52]
52
Magna Vitaeance and support to arts and culture organisations in this regard. The school explores with 
participants the models and approaches that are directly relevant to the participant 
organisation advising how best to use them to overcome challenges and build on 
opportunities. The coursework supports the development of a bespoke strategy to create a 
well-developed fundraising action plan by the conclusion of the course.
Opportunities to participate and benefit from the NAFS course, through a bursary programme 
are recommended to form part of the Open for Culture programme. Places on this bursary 
programme would be offered to local individuals from the existing cultural sector through 
application; and, importantly, to those from the wider community thereby developing the base 
of the sector at the same time as embedding culture into community thinking across 
Grimsby. Further details on the bursary approach are outlined at 1.9.7 below.
 Event Production and Delivery Capacity Building
There is already a strong local sector production company that has a track record of curating 
and producing large scale events of the calibre of the Open for Culture programme. Once the 
artistic programme is confirmed a technical specification for the festival would be developed 
and within the tender specification an element of ‘mentoring’ to ensure local student 
development opportunities would be included. During the necessary tender opportunity, we 
would include a weighting in favour of local providers. 
Through the delivery and management of the programme opportunities, either in a paid 
employment or a voluntary shadowing capacity, would be provided to grow the capacity for 
event and production planning of larger scale and multi company events. Including increased 
capacity for:
o Production Planning
o Crowd management and Crowd Dynamics preparation
o Site planning and management
o Health and safety planning and delivery
o Events Safety Advisory Group preparation and presentation
o High value budget planning, monitoring and delivery
More detail is provided at section 1.9.7 below.
 Approaches to support sector learning and capacity building through the ‘New 
 Commissions’ programme.
As outlined through 1.9, a wide range of capacity building approaches and opportunities are 
suggested as part of the ‘New Commissions’ festival programme development. 
These are explained in more detail below including:
- Open Call commissions
- Bursaries
- Mentoring/Work Shadowing
- Festival Employment Opportunities1.9.71.9.6

[PAGE 53]
53
North East Lincolnshire Council‘Open Call’ commissions 
Open Call commissioning invitations will be announced at the project launch event in March 
2020. These commissions will be targeted primarily at the Grimsby based sector, giving an 
opportunity to develop learning and capacity building through direct programme involvement. 
Prioritisation will be given to local submissions through advance advertising and selection 
weighting.
The Magna Vitae team will produce a detailed specification of requirements and outcomes 
and invite open calls for programme content suggestions through expression of interest. 
A competitive dialogue approach will be fostered with potential providers, with the aim of 
encouraging innovative approaches to delivery.  This will enable the widest perspective to be 
taken before selecting and inviting a small number of providers to submit more detailed 
proposals. The launch event programme at section 1.7.6 proposes 6 initial open call 
commissions of varying scale and value. This approach will be flexible with final 
commissioning decisions being taken to ensure the most exciting and impactful festival 
programme.
The process will be managed by Magna Vitae who will directly contract providers, manage 
contracts and measure performance.  The Open Call commissioning process will enable the 
expertise and innovation of local organisations in working with targeted communities to 
enhance engagement practices.
Successful commissions will be awarded utilising a combination of a scoring framework and 
small artistic panel, headed by the Artistic Director.  The scoring framework will follow ACE 
best practice for commissioning and tendering. The selection scoring criteria will be fully 
explained in the commissioning invitation and will include:
• Applicant location
• Proposal fit with artistic themes (Origins, Heritage, Food & Future) 
• Engagement of underrepresented groups
• Engagement of new audiences using town centre locations 
• Quality of previous work
• Total delivery cost of the work
From the announcement of the open commission opportunities at the March launch event, 
expression of interest submissions would be received within two weeks. Through competitive 
dialogue shortlisted applicants would be being invited to submit more details proposals within 
a further two-week period enabling full consideration of best programming fit for 2020 or 
2021.
Using the learning from the first open call commissioning approach, further opportunities 
would be developed and announced to form part of the 2021 festival programme. An outline 
of this approach to learning and transitioning is provided at 1.9.8.

[PAGE 54]
54
Magna VitaeBursaries
EU Internship - Festival Travel Bursaries (3 days)
We will develop opportunities for local members of the cultural sector to be able to visit an 
international festival. This opportunity will allow the successful applicants to:
• Visit an international festival (likely to be Passage Festival, Denmark)
• Attend various performances free of change.
• Attend artist meetings
• Develop artist contacts (in an international context)
• Attend networking opportunities with wider cultural sector.
The programme will offer this bursary to two candidates per year through a local advertise -
ment for expression of interest in April each year (2020 and 2021). The application process 
will involve the submission of a ‘case for support’.
The bursary should ideally be funded from the New Horizons programme, thus not diverting 
event content funds, and would include travel, accommodation and food.
Recruitment to these opportunities will be by:
• Working with local cultural organisations and their networks to directly advertise to the  
 local cultural ‘sector’;
• Advertisements via relevant local press; and
• Social media advertising.
Consideration of the ‘cases for support’ and final selection would be undertaken via a 
shortlisting and interview process undertaken by Magna Vitae’s cultural lead and the NELC 
CDF Programme Manager. The decision would be communicated to successful applicants in 
May each year with the visit taking place in August.
Funding Capacity Building Bursaries
https://www.nationalartsfundraisingschool.com/
The programme will offer this bursary to three candidates per year through a local 
advertisement for expression of interest in January each year (2020 and 2021). The 
application process will involve the submission of a ‘case for support’.
The bursary should ideally be funded from the New Horizons programme, thus not diverting 
event content funds, and would include travel, accommodation and food.

[PAGE 55]
55
North East Lincolnshire CouncilRecruitment to these opportunities will be by:
• Working with local cultural organisations and their networks to directly advertise to the  
 local cultural ‘sector’;
• Working with the cultural lead to identify and target local community organisations   
 positioned to take advantage of the opportunity; 
• Advertisements via relevant local press; and
• Social media advertising.
Consideration of the ‘cases for support’ and final selection would be undertaken via a 
shortlisting and interview process undertaken by Magna Vitae’s cultural lead and the NELC 
CDF Programme Manager. The decision will be communicated to the successful applicants in 
February each year with the NAFS course being in May and the visit taking place in August.
Mentoring / Work Shadowing opportunities
Artistic Director shadowing  
The programme will include a voluntary opportunity to shadow international artistic director, 
Jens Frimman.
This is a unique opportunity for a suitable local candidate to fully immerse themselves within 
the role of an international artist director and develop their own links to festivals, artists, 
producers and leaders from around Europe. The shadowing will be over 10 days per year 
including working on the ‘Open for Culture’ festival, Passage Festival and Fira Tarrega. This 
will be a very significant personal capacity building opportunity for the individual selected.
The opportunity will be ideally offered to a single candidate over the two-year period through 
local advertisement for expression of interest in April 2020 [but could be offered annually if 
required]. 
Recruitment to this opportunity will be by:
• Working with local cultural organisations and their next works to directly advertise to   
 the local cultural ‘sector’
• Advertisements via relevant local press; and
• Social media advertising.
Selection will be undertaken via a shortlisting and interview process undertaken by Magna 
Vitae’s cultural lead and the NELC CDF Programme Manager, with Arts Council England 
being invited to be part of this selection process. The decision will be communicated to the 
successful applicant in May with the work taking place between May and August 2020 and 
2021.

[PAGE 56]
56
Magna VitaeAny associated travel and accommodation costs will be reimbursed along with daily subsist -
ence expenses, with prior agreement. This should ideally be funded from the New Horizons 
programme, thus not diverting event content funds.
Context notes
Jens Frimann Hansen is the Artistic Director of street theatre festivals PASSAGE Festival in Helsingør/Helsingborg (DK) 
and SO-Festival in Skegness (UK). Helsingør Teater also cooperates with many communities in Denmark and Sweden on 
creating artistic programmes of international street theatre. 
Jens works with his team of, Trine Heller Jensen and Marie Viltoft Polli) assisted by Camilla Hasseriis Dietz and Kamma 
Siegumfeldt. All together the team covers high level professional competences in fields such as children’s culture, theatre, 
street theatre, visual arts, literature, architecture, philosophy, modern dance and literature. 
The team visits 10-15 international festivals every year and sees every year 300-500 international performances thus 
offers the widest possible choice of international work. 
PASSAGE Festival is celebrated as one of the leading Nordic cultural institutions in audience engagement and audience 
development. Both Helsingør Teater and PASSAGE Festival have played a significant role in the transformation of 
Helsingør from being an industrial coastal town to becoming a cultural town, with the highest cultural spend and 
engagement of any town outside Copenhagen. This highlights the ‘natural fit’ with the town of Grimsby as both Magna 
Vitae and Helsingor Theatre have been on a journey similar to the one that Grimsby is now embarking. 
Jens Frimann Hansen has been appointed for several positions of trust by both the Danish and Swedish Arts Council. 
Among others he is in the board of The Copenhagen Theatre, an umbrella organisation developing theatre in 
Copenhagen and from 2012-2016 he was the chair of a national committee for children’s theatre.  
Cultural Lead Shadowing 
The programme will also include a voluntary opportunity for an individual to shadow relevant 
senior leaders at Magna Vitae such as the CEO, Director and Cultural Programmes Manager. 
This will be a 10-day opportunity to attend in house cultural business meetings and national 
partner meetings. It will allow the successful candidate to develop a network of professional 
support not only from the Magna Vitae team but also from the wider cultural leadership 
community.
The opportunity will be offered either to one candidate per year or to a single candidate 
over the two-year period through local advertisement for expression of interest in April 
2020/2021. 
Recruitment to this opportunity will be by:
• Working with local cultural organisations and their next works to directly advertise to   
 the local cultural ‘sector’
• Advertisements via relevant local press; and
• Social media advertising.
Selection will be undertaken via a shortlisting and interview process undertaken by Magna 
Vitae’s cultural lead and the NELC CDF Programme Manager, with Arts Council England 
being invited to be part of this selection process. The decision will be communicated to the 

[PAGE 57]
57
North East Lincolnshire Councilsuccessful applicants in May each year with the work taking place between May and 
December 2020 and 2021.
Any associated expenses will be reimbursed, with prior agreement. This should ideally be 
funded from the New Horizons programme, thus not diverting event content funds.
Festival Employment Opportunities
Festival Assistant
A new salaried part-time post of Festival Assistant at Magna Vitae will be created specifically 
to support the Open for Culture programme. This position will be the key artistic development 
liaison and administrative position for the festival. This vacancy creates the local opportunity 
to directly build capacity locally within the creative industry and will be advertised exclusively 
within North East Lincolnshire. The role will be a fixed term two-year contract with Magna 
Vitae. It will give the successful candidate the opportunity as part of the project team to 
benefit from:
• Being part of a successful NPO delivery team;
• Working with a team of colleagues with 15 years of festival delivery experience;
• Working alongside international artists, producers and cultural businesses;
• Developing international level contacts within the arts and cultural sectors.
This new position will be advertised within 14 days of the phase 2 contract being awarded and 
will be based at the Magna Vitae office within Centre4.
Festival Support Workers
There will be several volunteer and paid festival ‘runner roles’ for the events in 2020 and 
2021. These opportunities will allow local people to get that critical ‘first step’ in to working 
on a ‘live’ festival and will hopefully enthuse and inspire them to commit to future increased 
opportunities. These roles will be advertised between 6/8 weeks prior to the festivals in 2020 
and 2021.
Volunteer roles will be involved through a ‘Festival Maker’ programme working in 
collaboration with sector support organisations such as Voluntary Action North East 
Lincolnshire and GIFHE. Food and uniform, where relevant, will be provided. Core Festival 
Maker roles will be remunerated.

[PAGE 58]
58
Magna Vitae Learning and evaluation through and after year one to inform the approach to year   
 two
To be successful in the journey to create lasting place change through the CDF programme, 
it perhaps goes without saying that there will need to be an approach of learning, evaluating, 
improving and developing throughout the festival’s design, management, programming, 
production and delivery. That evaluation and development in this context also needs to 
ensure progression towards more locally sustainable festival delivery and development.
Through our approach to managing and delivering the Open for Culture festival the Magna 
Vitae team in general will evaluate what works[ed] well needs to be retained, reinforced and 
expanded where possible; what works[ed] not so well and should either be refined and 
improved, or reviewed and potentially ceased or replaced.
An outline of the programme elements where evaluation and learning would form a key part 
include:
- Review of success of approach taken to inviting and outcomes from ‘Open Call’ 
 commissions and subsequent selection decisions;
- Review of success of EU Internship bursaries process and outcomes;
- Review of success of NAFS bursaries process and outcomes;
- Review of launch event artistic elements;
- Evaluation of centrepiece event artistic programme and event preparation and 
 planning, paying particular attention to local content and involvement to identify 
 potential for increasing local involvement in to 2021;
- Review of year 1 of Artistic Director shadowing opportunity, candidate selection 
 process, success of the work programme and outcomes achieved to inform year two   
 and potential widening of involvement in year two festival programme;
- Review of cultural lead shadowing opportunity, candidate selection process, success of 
 the work programme and outcomes achieved to inform year two and work 
 programme development;
- Review of all capacity building measures to identify further enhancement in to year   
 two;
- Review programme content success in engaging new audiences, under-represented   
 groups and internationalism
- Review allocation of budgets to optimise programme impact.
This list is not exhaustive but is provided for early illustration. Learning, evaluation and 
development will be undertaken throughout to ensure the stated outcomes of the Open for 
Culture programme are achieved, including the transition to local leadership.
 1.9.8

[PAGE 59]
59
North East Lincolnshire CouncilTransition to increased local leadership over time
In addition to ensuring that capacity building and local learning builds through and from year 
one to year two, it is also essential from the outset to agree and work towards the cultural 
development sustainability opportunities that exist beyond the CDF programme. As 
previously noted, research and consultation has identified the potential to develop a strong 
NPO application to the next round, being 2023, and/or to develop a Creative People and 
Places partnership submission, which would need to be completed in early 2020. 
Agreeing and progressing these opportunities will help to ensure that the local stakeholder 
capacity building continues beyond CDF and creates a clear ‘transfer’ of lead partner at an 
early stage in what will be a three to five-year journey to achieve long term local cultural 
development sustainability for Grimsby.1.9.9


[PAGE 60]
60
 Photograph by Toni Coates