Open tender
West Midlands Growth Company
Baskerville House
2 Centenary Square
Birmingham
B1 2ND
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 121 202 5115
W: www.wmgrowth.com
                                       CONTENTS
SECTION ONE – Tender Information
NB - West Midlands Growth Company shall rely on the information provided by the quoting provider. A material misrepresentation contained therein shall constitute a material breach of contract.
This document contains:
Contract information - for reference only
 WMGC Ltd as the contracting authority is seeking to contract with a Consultancy Company to support a suite of refreshed sector investment narratives to support the economic legacy of Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games. The expert inward investment consultancy must have capacity to deliver all or subcontract parts of the brief. Where the Lead Contractor is intending to sub-contract part of the tender brief, they must indicate which parts of the brief will be subcontracted and obligations in managing delivery and performance rests with the prime contractor.
1.1 Rationale for Procurement
The Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games presents a once-in-a-generation opportunity to raise the international standing of the West Midlands, and indeed the UK, as a competitive, global investment location. It will play a critical role in the region’s post-pandemic recovery, supporting the UK’s overarching ambitions to level-up and ‘build back better’. To maximise this opportunity to its fullest it is critical that the region has a clear narrative regarding its’ priority investment propositions; one that is compelling, differentiated and evidenced. In tandem with this, a summarised and all-encompassing regional economic ‘pitch’ will help to capture and engage key stakeholders and potential investors nationally and globally, on the business opportunities of the West Midlands.
Further to this, the West Midlands Growth Company (WMGC) is leading the ‘Ready to Go’ campaign, which seeks to create a suite of sector ‘Pitch Books’ to support a step-change in proactive sector marketing activity linked to Birmingham 2022.  Pitch Books will be shared with intermediaries such as DIT, location consultants, professional services firms to ensure that they have a clear understanding of the key differentiators of the region; this will support them in their arms-length support of WMGC by raising awareness of the regions’ strengths to their clients and networks. By engaging with the sector during the formulation of the narratives, the pitch books additionally provide an anchor point for all sector stakeholders within the region to align on consistent messaging.
In order to inform the creation of these Pitch Books, WMGC seeks to commission a piece of work to understand our sector strengths against clients’ needs and national and international peers, to better communicate the region’s sector capabilities and support its competitive positioning as an investment location. This project will play a key role in enhancing the region’s profile nationally and internationally; providing compelling points of difference which will underpin WMGC’s promotional campaigns over the next three to five years.
1.3 Tender Process 
 You will need to respond via the process and within the timelines as indicated.
 Indicative Timescales
Table:1 
1.4 Procurement route 
The proposed procurement route for this tender is by public advert published via the In-Tend e portal and Contracts Finder in compliance with the Transparency Code (2015) and in line with WMGC Code of Procurement for receiving tenders through open Procedure.
The procedure will also allow for value for money to be obtained by encouraging participation of small medium enterprises.
1.5 Key Project Owners 
Dan Storer, Chief Investment Officer, Senior Accountable Officer  
James Turner, Head of Sector Marketing, Programme Lead
David Fisken, Head of Business Attraction, Budget Holder
Ronny Tigere, Procurement Lead
1.6 Primary Project Objectives are. 
To lead the on-time delivery of the refreshed investment pitchbooks for the Creative & Digital sector, Advanced Manufacturing sector and Low Carbon sector. 
To provide additional expert inward investment and sector expertise to wider sector workstreams.
To support the investment team in the creation of sector plans.
1.7 Duration
The contract will run from 25th February 2021 to 23rd April 2021. 
1.8 Value
The total anticipated maximum value of this contract is between the range of £50,000 to 80,000 and all bidders must note that the Contracting Authority will not enter into agreements above set budget cap.
1.9 Payment Schedule
The total contract value is to include all costs related to delivering the agreed contract activities to achieve required outcomes including, but not exclusive to: management, service, research, travel, accommodation, subsistence, event attendance and other expenses.  It is expected that the supplier bid will contain a fixed element and a forecasted element for other expenses – please note that the sums payable to the successful tenderer cannot exceed the original quote in the submission bid. The submissions should provide a detailed breakdown of costs under the same headings as the ones given the pricing schedule and these must include.
• Consultants fees (number of workdays and day rates) broken down on the basis of the project outline,
• Details and costs of any sub-contractual arrangements should also be included within the quotation.
Payment Profile 
Prices and details should be provided for the carrying out of the tasks specified in the brief. Consultants should provide a fixed price quotation for the study. A staged invoicing schedule will be subject to approval by the WMGC Ltd. Payments shall be made as outlined below:
20% on receipt of confirmed delivery plan and delivery of first workstream inception meeting 
30% On satisfactory interim reporting of draft findings and recommendations to the workstream Chair/WMGC programme leadership board.
50% On receipt of ‘Signed-off’ pitch books (includes narrative) and sector plans.
1.10 Expenses 
Tenderers should note that if the bid proposal submitted includes any element of expenses that sit outside of their fees quoted e.g., travel, parking, accommodation, subsistence, event/trade show attendance and other expenses, then it is a condition that at the time of submission of invoices the successful supplier MUST provide actual receipts and a description detailing the purpose to be achieved in relation to this contract.  West Midlands Growth Company will not reimburse such expenditure without the evidence required. Suppliers should divide their costing proposal into budget headings i.e. fees and expenses (if applicable).  The total maximum amount claimable is that of all budget headings added together.  Suppliers can move amounts within budget headings with the prior approval of West Midlands Growth Company, however the total maximum amount cannot be exceeded (i.e., Fees + expenses = Total maximum cost)
 TWO – Tender Specification
2.1	Description of requirement
The Primary project objectives are:
To lead the on-time delivery of the refreshed investment pitchbooks for the Creative & Digital sector, Advanced Manufacturing sector and Low Carbon sector. 
To provide additional expert inward investment and sector expertise to wider sector workstreams.
To support the investment team in the creation of sector plans.
Where possible provide support for the parallel Life Science/Health, Finance and Professional Service workstreams through provision of data, research and domain expertise. 
The successfully tenderer will be expected to provide expert investment consultants to directly lead, and be accountable for, the delivery of 3 of a total of 6 workstreams as detailed below: 
Work streams for which the consultant will be directly accountable will be:
Tech & creative 
Advanced manufacturing (potentially including transport, food & drink, materials, Industry 4.0)
Low carbon
Work streams for which consultants will provide arms-length, analytic and expert support would be:
Financial & professional services
Life sciences
Macro-economic narrative
The appointed consultants will work with a workstream chair – typically a significant stakeholder within the regional sector ecosystem – who will provide strategic steer and facilitate access to key organisations. The consultants will lead on sector engagement to uncover the insights relating to our strengths and narrative through: 
reviewing existing research & data 
1:1 meetings 
formation of a “task & finish” group who will collectively and agilely workshop aspects of the project. 
The WMGC inward investment team will play a central role supporting the consultants; providing expert and operational support, including the identification of key individuals and organisations in support of the delivery of Pitch Books. Sector Plan delivery is the responsibility of sector teams, but it is expected that consultants will provide a key role, ensuring linkage with the Pitch Books and providing expertise and insight.
It is vital that consultants have deep investment knowledge of the sectors they are leading and have professional insight and gravitas to operate effectively with workstream partners in the public and private sectors.
All workstreams work to a standardised plan under the oversight of a WMGC programme lead and project management. 
FIG.1 Organisational Structure Programme
Using insights from these sector engagements in combination with an analysis of existing & commissioned data sources (such as the West Midlands Local Industrial Strategy and a parallel research project uncovering emerging technology strengths across the sectors), this role will translate these into a narrative which defines the specific sector comparative advantages (points of difference) for our region.
Specifically, this will include detail of:
Sector trends
Sector audience needs
National and international competitor cities
Our comparative strengths, gaps and growth areas within the sector
Illustrative case studies
Strengths can be considered as potentially including aspects such as: ecosystem capability, talent / expertise, specific assets, investable opportunities and access to market / speed of collaboration.
FIG.2 Points of Difference Venn Diagram
The insights surfaced during the engagement phase of this project will be used by the consultant, in collaboration with WMGC, to populate to standardised templates:
Pitch book: A central repository, which encapsulates the regions key points of difference, quantifiable evidence and investable assets. This will be deployed as one of our key sales tools to succinctly and powerfully convey the benefits of the region. An important element of this will be headline elevator pitches – summarising overarching location headline sector story, prioritised subsector propositions; strapline, differentiators / exemplars / hero stories, and messages
Sector plans: to work in conjunction with WMGC BD & marketing teams to develop 3-year plans for engaging and converting our target audiences
2.2 Project Management
The project will be managed by Dan Storer, James Turner and David Fisken. The contractor will be required to meet as agreed at the inception meeting or by teleconference.
Meetings/calls shall be held on regular basis between the supplier and key personnel from West Midlands Growth Company.  These meetings/calls shall be held to review progress in the provisions of the Services against the Consultant’s tender and any identified timescales.  
2.3 Confidentiality
West Midlands Growth Company would expect to have free use of all data, and all intellectual property rights to the deliverables produced and assigned to West Midlands Growth Company. The outputs of this project must be kept strictly confidential and they cannot be shared with any third party without written permission from West Midlands Growth Company.
The tender documentation is commercially sensitive and will be kept strictly confidential.  Under no circumstances can information be passed on to any third party without permission from West Midlands Growth Company.  
2.4 Freedom of Information
Tenderers should note that the Employer may be required to disclose information that Tenderers provide to the Employer under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 unless the Employer can establish either that the information is subject to a duty of confidence or that it is both commercially sensitive and the public interest in maintaining its confidentiality is greater than the public interest in disclosing it.
2.5 Conflicts of Interest 
Contractors will be expected to manage conflicts of interest between WMGC and any competitors or partners that the contractor works with or becomes a representative of.  To ensure that these conflicts of interest are managed effectively, tenderers are asked to supply a detailed methodology setting out how they will manage any conflicts of interest that arise.  This will be evaluated as part of tender submissions. 
Should at any point during the duration of the contract any framework contractor becomes a representative of a competitor or partner of WMGC, that contractor will be required to inform WMGC and act in accordance with the agreed methodology.  If the contractor fails to successfully manage any conflicts of interest, then WMGC may choose to terminate the contract.
2.6 Sub-contracting 
Whilst it is the preference of WMGC that no sub-contracting is involved in this project, we appreciate that it may be necessary to successfully fulfil the project aims. The Supplier may sub-contract delivery of the Services with the prior consent of the Client. 
If you are sub-contracting, please ensure you complete appendix B in full.
SECTION THREE – Tender Methodology and Criteria 
3.1 Evaluation Process
3.2   The proposed method of evaluating the tenders shall be based on Most Economic Advantageous Tender (MEAT) including Quality/Price Split of 70/30 for the available 100 marks. 
 3.3   In evaluating the tenders the proposals will require Tenderers to respond with quality submissions to following Pass/ Fail Selection Criteria below and Award Criteria on Table:4
3.4    In applying this rule of using a scoring question for this element selection criteria the Contracting Authority will use Table: 5 scoring grid
Selection Criteria: Table 2
3.5 Please complete submit with your Tenders two years of Audited latest accounts for financial years 2019 & 2020 filed accounts to companies House, Financial stability is evaluated by looking at the following: - Current ratio – Solvency – (calculated by current assets / current liabilities). Pass if ratio is greater than or equal to 1; Fail if ratio is less than 1.
3.6 Only those suppliers passing the above selection criteria will proceed to having their bid proposal evaluated against the below award criteria response requirements.
      Quality Award Criteria (Weightings)
  Table:3
3.7 Tenderers are required to submit fully compliant Tenders meeting all of the employer’s requirements as specified in this Approval to Procure.
3.8   WMGC will reject Tender submissions which do not comply fully with the Tender submission requirements.
*Please Note:  WMGC will not bind itself to accept the lowest priced, or any, tender. 
3.9 Evaluation of Price
Pricing will be evaluated using the “standard differential” method. Pricing submissions will be ranked in order of price with the lowest priced bid considered the most economically advantageous. 
The lowest lump sum price will be awarded 30%. Scores for other bids will be awarded 30% less the percentage difference that they are more expensive than the lowest price. 
 Tenderers will be requested to submit a fixed lump sum tender price.
 These costs are to be inserted within the form of Tender.
           The marks for price for each other Tender will be calculated by the following formula:
              Maximum marks for Price     X          Price of lowest priced Tender
			                                      Price of Tender being evaluated.
              Example: 
              For an evaluation allocating 30 marks to Bid Price, the evaluation would be as follows based on the 3 example bids received.
              With tendered prices of £40,000, £75, 000 and £95,000
•	The lowest £40,000 price gets 30 marks.
•	The £75,000price gets 16 marks, based on 30 marks x (£40,000/75000).
•	The £95,000 price gets 12.63 marks based on 30marks x (£40,000/95,000).
Table:4 Price Evaluation Model 
3.10 Evaluation of Quality Questions
3.10.1 Companies are required to submit responses to 4 quality questions which will be evaluated on the following quality criteria (70%) of the tender marks available):
3.10.2 The ITT submissions will be evaluated according to how far the submission meets the Employers requirements in the area being evaluated as set out in the table below. 
The scores for each individual quality question will then be weighted (also) as set out in the table below:
Table:5 Award Criteria 
3.11 Scoring Grid (Rubric)
WMGC Ltd will use a scoring system for evaluating Tenderer’s responses to the quality questions as follows:
Table: 6
3.12    The Evaluation Process
3.12.1 The evaluation process will consider all relevant submitted evidence and written   information provided by each Tenderer, in relation to the specific requirements as set out within the ITT document and the supporting documentation. 
3.12.2 There will be an initial check of all Tenders for completeness and compliance with the tendering instructions (including a check that the Tender is a “compliant Tender”).
3.12.3 Any submissions that in the opinion of WMGC which do not meet the requirements set out in this Approval to Procure request may be rejected as non-compliant and will not be evaluated further.
 3.12.4 Each aspect of the Tender evaluation for quality will be undertaken by a scoring panel.
 3.12.5 The panel will agree a single overall score out of 5 for each aspect of the Tender domain area being evaluated as set out in the tables above.
 3.12.6 This score will be multiplied by the weighting for that item (as set out in the above table) to give a total score for that aspect of the Tender.
            The scores for the criteria listed above will be added together to produce a Total Score. 
3.12.7 The scores for each submission will be compared and be awarded to the tenders assessed as having submitted the most economically advantageous tender.
3.13   Financial Appraisals
3.13.1 Each company will be subject to a financial appraisal of their relative stability in the first instance.
3.13.2  Failure to demonstrate adequate financial soundness for the undertaking of this Contract will result in rejection of the submission and will not be scored further.
3.13.3  WMGC Ltd will undertake a rigorous check of all companies who would provide the Services for this contract.
3.13.4   For the avoidance of doubt a typical financial check will include the following:
Turnover will be analysed to ensure that the Contract does not represent an excessive proportion of the company turnover.
The following ratios will be used to establish financial viability such as (pre-tax) Profitability, Liquidity and Solvency. 
All information provided to WMGC Ltd should be the most recent available; financial information which is not too old to provide sufficient evidence to judge future likely stability for example when calculating turnover, this will be evaluated on basis of last two financial years.
3.14    Public Services (Social Value) Act 2012
3.14.1 Social Value has been allocated 10% of the available weighted 70% for Quality Marks and Consultants will be evaluated on the basis of social value proposition with a direct benefit to the community in area of contract delivery.
3.14.2 The contracting authority is looking for social value with the greatest impact and this will be measured on basis of delivery of SV within the (West Midlands) footprint
4.0 Submission Instructions 
4.1 Process and timescales
This timetable is indicative only. West Midlands Growth Company reserves the right to change it at is discretion.
4.2 Tender Queries
4.2.1 Tender queries must be submitted via the In-Tend system at the website specified above before the deadline specified above.  The tender manager will coordinate any responses. 
4.2.2 West Midlands Growth Company will issue response to any tender queries to all tenderers through In-Tend.  In the interests of fair and open tendering no reference will be made to the identity of the tenderer raising the individual query or queries.  
 4.3 Extensions to Deadlines
4.3.1 No extensions will be given to the tender deadlines set out above. 
4.4   Period of Validity
4.4.1 Tenders must remain open for consideration (unless previously withdrawn) for not less than [10] weeks from the date for return of tenders.  
4.5 Failure to Proceed.
Should West Midlands Growth Company and the chosen tenderer fail to enter into a contract for any reason, the chosen tenderer (and all other tenderers) shall not be reimbursed for any tendering, design, mobilisation and/or management costs (or those of any proposed subcontractors, suppliers or consultants).  
The chosen tenderer will be required to return to West Midlands Growth Company (at its request) all tender documentation received (including specifications, this invitation to tender, the draft contract etc.) or to destroy these.
Tenderers may not retain any documentation for their own use, or their use by third parties.
Please note as WMGC is bound by Public Procurement Law we are unable to accept any material changes to the draft contract provided with the tender documents.
4.6 Errors in Pricing
     If West Midlands Growth Company discovers arithmetical errors in any tender West Midlands Growth Company will give the detail of those errors to the tenderer.  The tenderer will be given the opportunity to either:
to confirm the offer, in which case all rates or prices are to be treated as being reduced in the same proportion as the corrected total of priced items exceeds or falls short of the tendered total or such items; or
to correct their tender, in which case the corrected figures will be used in the evaluation.  
4.7   Tender Return Documents
       The following documents are required in response to this invitation to tender:
Completed Supplier Information (Appendix A)
Copies of your Professional Insurance Cover 
Copies of Audited or Filed accounts in the last two years. 
Completed Method Statements to Responses required to evaluate selection Criteria and Award Criteria Responses 
APPENDIX A – SUPPLIER TO COMPLETE 
Supplier information - Please complete the following form:
APPENDIX B – SUPPLIER TO COMPLETE
Bidding Model
APPENDIX C – SUPPLIER TO COMPLETE
Financial information - Please complete the following financial form to self-certify that you will provide the information requested should you be successful.
APPENDIX D- SUPPLIER TO COMPLETE
Technical and Professional Ability 
Responses to this Form will be used to undertake an assessment of your organisation’s technical and professional ability to provide the works.
Appendix E Quality Response Questionnaire 
Proven experience 30%
Please provide examples / case studies of similar projects that you have previously delivered, either for similar type of organization or project type? Client endorsements would be particularly welcomed. 
WMGC is looking for an organisation that can demonstrate experience in successfully delivering robust and compelling investment propositions; with domain sector expertise; and ideally with in-house data / insight / research resource to support the entire programme. Please provide examples of previous work (limited to 2 paragraphs of text and 5 bullet points of most recent relevant projects including the value, client and reference person) and CVs of your proposed consultants (each limited to 2 pages).
Maximum Word Count: 1000 Words
Approach Methodology   15%
Please demonstrate how you will engage with sector opinion formers, validate their feedback and interpret sector capabilities from data sources to accurately derive insights and create a differentiated narrative.
WMGC Ltd is looking for a Consultant who can engage effectively with key individuals, organisations and member bodies within the sector. The methodology must demonstrate a robust and methodological process for interpreting and cross-checking feedback from multiple information sources to derive reasoned insights about the sector. The methodology must show how these insights will be tested and combined into a coherent narrative and outputs as indicated in the Tender Brief.
Maximum Word Count 1000 Words
Programme Management 15%
Please indicate your proposed work programme to achieve success in this project according to our objectives and timescale. This should include a Gantt chart with timelines and milestones together with detail of the specific roles of the project team within your organisation.
WMGC Ltd is looking for a Consultant who can demonstrate clearly and convincingly how the project will be delivered to the highest quality. The activities must include but not limited to:
Provision of a response setting out how the key objectives will be addressed; outline dates for completion and delivery sequencing for project critical activities; known constraints, assumptions and lead times for delivery should be stated.
Maximum Word Count 1000 Words 
Social Value 10%
Please provide a method Statement that outlines your social value and opportunity proposals for underrepresented groups for this Contract.
WMGC Ltd requires a Consultant that can indicate how their work on this project can benefit the long-term economic growth of the region via increased investment opportunities.
Maximum Word Count 1000 Words
=== TABLES ===
SECTION ONE - Tender information | SECTION ONE - Tender information | 
 | Contract information | 3
 | Rationale of procurement | 3
 | Project Objectives | 5
SECTION TWO - Tender specification | SECTION TWO - Tender specification | 
 | Description of requirement | 7
 | Project management | 10
 | Confidentiality | 10
 | Freedom of information | 10
SECTION THREE – Tender process and evaluation | SECTION THREE – Tender process and evaluation | 
 | Evaluation Process | 11
 | Quality Award Criteria | 11
 | Evaluation of Price | 12
 | Price Evaluation Model | 13
 | Evaluation of Quality Questions | 13
 | Award Criteria Table | 14
 | Scoring Grid | 16
 | Evaluation process | 17
 | Financial Appraisals | 17
 | Social Value | 17
 | Submission Instructions | 19
Appendix A | Supplier information | 22
Appendix B | Bidding Information | 23
Appendix C | Financial information | 25
Appendix D | Technical and professional ability | 26
Appendix E | Quality Response Questionnaire | 27
Documents Issued | Friday 5th February 2021
Deadline for Clarification Questions | Tuesday 16th February 2021 before 17:00PM
Return of Tenders: | Friday 19th February 2021 Before 12:00 Noon.
** Tender Opening | Friday 19th February 2021 Before 14:00 PM
* Evaluation of Tenders (by) | Monday 22-Tuesday 23rd February 2021
* Recommendation to Award Report & Sign-off | Wednesday 24th February 2021
Contract Award | Thursday 25th February 2021
Contract Signing | Friday 26th February 2021
Contract Start | Monday 1st March 2021
Contract Delivery Completion | Friday 23rd April 2021
Ref. | Detail | Total Marks Available | Multiplier | Weighting | Employer’s Requirements
(1a) | Professional Indemnity Insurance | Consultants will be required to demonstrate a minimum of £1M professional indemnity by submitting proof of certificate cover at the point of evaluation or must demonstrate ability to get cover to the required threshold indicated above. | Consultants will be required to demonstrate a minimum of £1M professional indemnity by submitting proof of certificate cover at the point of evaluation or must demonstrate ability to get cover to the required threshold indicated above. | Consultants will be required to demonstrate a minimum of £1M professional indemnity by submitting proof of certificate cover at the point of evaluation or must demonstrate ability to get cover to the required threshold indicated above. | Pass / Fail
(1b) | Financial Information | The appraisal assesses the financial condition of all companies based on the latest filed accounts. The minimum financial turnover for this contract shall be as follows:

Narrative Refresh Support Contract £160K Turnover will be Required. 

In applying the rules on Turnover requirements to contract size limit, WMGC has considered rules on “safe to award test” based on providers annual turnover to evidence financial risk, capacity and capability. Other ratios such as Cash flow and Profit and Loss may be used. | The appraisal assesses the financial condition of all companies based on the latest filed accounts. The minimum financial turnover for this contract shall be as follows:

Narrative Refresh Support Contract £160K Turnover will be Required. 

In applying the rules on Turnover requirements to contract size limit, WMGC has considered rules on “safe to award test” based on providers annual turnover to evidence financial risk, capacity and capability. Other ratios such as Cash flow and Profit and Loss may be used. | The appraisal assesses the financial condition of all companies based on the latest filed accounts. The minimum financial turnover for this contract shall be as follows:

Narrative Refresh Support Contract £160K Turnover will be Required. 

In applying the rules on Turnover requirements to contract size limit, WMGC has considered rules on “safe to award test” based on providers annual turnover to evidence financial risk, capacity and capability. Other ratios such as Cash flow and Profit and Loss may be used. | Pass / Fail
Q. Ref No. | Criteria | Areas for consideration | % Weighting
Applicable
Quality | Quality | Quality | 70%
1 | Proven Experience | Similar projects delivered within the last two years and / or for similar types of organisations | 30%
2 | Approach/ Methodology | Robust approach, engaging the sector, cross-checking multiple sources, deriving insights, building narratives | 15%
3 | Programme management | Project milestones, management to time / budget and critical delivery activities | 15%
4 | Social Value | Broader, long-term, regional benefits as a result of awarding this contract | 10%
Total Scored | Total Scored | Total Scored | 70%
Price: 30% | Applicant 1 | Applicant 2 | Applicant 3
Bid Price | £40,000 | £75,000 | £95,000
Total score for price (Max | 30 | 16 | 12.63
Q. Ref. | Domain Area of Assessment | Total Marks Available | Multiplier | Weighting | WMGC Requirements
1 | Proven experience
Please provide examples / case studies of similar projects that you have previously delivered, either for similar type of organization or project type? Client endorsements would be particularly welcomed. | 5 | 6.0 | 30% | WMGC is looking for an organisation that can demonstrate experience in successfully delivering robust and compelling investment propositions; with domain sector expertise; and ideally with in-house data / insight / research resource to support the entire programme.

Please provide examples of previous work (limited to 2 paragraphs of text and 5 bullet points of most recent relevant projects including the value, client and reference person) and CVs of your proposed consultants (each limited to 2 pages).
2 | Approach Methodology   
Please demonstrate how you will engage with sector opinion formers, validate their feedback and interpret sector capabilities from data sources to accurately derive insights and create a differentiated narrative | 5 | 3.0 | 15% | WMGC Ltd is looking for a Consultant who can engage effectively with key individuals, organisations and member bodies within the sector.

The methodology must demonstrate a robust and methodological process for interpreting and cross-checking feedback from multiple information sources to derive reasoned insights about the sector. 

The methodology must show how these insights will be tested and combined into a coherent narrative and outputs as indicated in s2.1
3 | Programme management               
Please indicate your proposed work programme to achieve success in this project according to our objectives and timescale. This should include a Gantt chart with timelines and milestones together with detail of the specific roles of the project team within your organisation | 5 | 4.0 | 15% | WMGC Ltd is looking for a Consultant who can demonstrate clearly and convincingly how the project will be delivered to the highest quality. The activities must include but not limited to:
provision of a response setting out how the key objectives will be addressed; outline dates for completion and delivery sequencing for project critical activities; known constraints, assumptions and lead times for delivery should be stated.
4 | Social Value 
Please provide a method Statement that outlines your social value and opportunity proposals for underrepresented groups for this Contract. | 5 | 2.0 | 10% | WMGC Ltd requires a Consultant that can indicate how their work on this project can benefit the long-term economic growth of the region via increased investment opportunities
Score | Evaluation Measure | How well has the Consultant demonstrated their ability to meet WMGC Ltd requirements
0 | Very Poor | Either no answer is provided or the answer completely fails to demonstrate that any of WMGC requirements in the area being evaluated will be delivered in accordance with the Contract Documents.
1 | Poor | Provides only limited assurance that the requirements in the area being evaluated will be delivered in accordance with the Contract Documents, so as to result in a poor standard of service
2 | Reasonable | Demonstrates how a significant number of the requirements in the area being evaluated will be delivered in accordance with the Contract Documents to provide a reasonable standard of service.
3 | Good | Demonstrates how most of WMGC Ltd requirements in the area being evaluated will be delivered in accordance with the Contract Documents to provide a good standard of service.
4 | Very Good | Demonstrates how almost all WMGC Ltd   requirements in the area being evaluated will be delivered in accordance with the Contract Documents to deliver the service very well.
5 | Excellent | Demonstrates clearly and convincingly how all WMGC Ltd requirements in the area being evaluated will be delivered in accordance with the Contract Documents so as to deliver the service in an excellent way
Milestone | Deadline and process
Brief stage | Brief stage
Brief & task | West Midlands Growth Company to issue open tender brief via appropriate invitation to tender websites by 5th February 2021
Response deadline | Companies must respond to tender brief requirements and submit their proposal to be with West Midlands Growth Company no later than 12:00 noon BST on Friday 19th February 2021
Submitting your tender | The West Midlands Growth Company tender process is outlined below.  
Stage 1 Expressing an Interest 
All suppliers must visit and register interest via the In-Tend system prior to submitting the tender. 
https://in-tendhost.co.uk/wmgrowth/aspx/Home 
Once you have expressed interest, the tender bid will be available to download from the ITT tab.  We recommend that you familiarise yourself with the submission process on the website prior to the submission deadline.  
If you are experiencing any technical difficulties or require any help, you should contact West Midlands Growth Company at the earliest possible point prior to the deadline in order to resolve any issues by emailing ronny.tigere@wmgcgrowth.com or paul.jones@wgmcgrowth.com    
Or Telephone us on 0121 202 5115 – please quote the tender reference number.
Stage 2 – Identify and submit Clarifications.
Please submit any questions to WMGC via its In-Tend system by no later than 12:00 noon BST on Tuesday 16th February 2021.  This should be done as a correspondence message on the system.
To ensure a fair and transparent process, any questions sent past this deadline will not be answered. The company will endeavour to answer all questions by the end of Wednesday 3rd February 2021.  Responses will be provided to prospective Tenderers via the Correspondence method and Clarifications Tab on In-tend.


Stage 3 – Submit tender
The final tender MUST be submitted as an electronic copy via the In-Tend system to West Midlands Growth Company.  

Supplier Landing Page Registration Process on In-Tend 
All suppliers must visit our e-Procurement system (In-Tend) to register and submit the tender. 
https://in-tendhost.co.uk/wmgrowth/aspx/Home 
Suppliers should note that there is a maximum file upload size of 5mb per document to the ‘In-tend’ website and where you have a large number of documents or documents which are close to the 5mb file size limit, you MUST ensure you allow plenty of time to upload your submission prior to the deadline for tender submission.
Name of the company (Prime or single contractor) in whose name the tender would be submitted: | 
Contact name: | 
Address: | 
Telephone number: | 
Fax number: | 
E-mail Address: | 
Company Registration number: | 
Date of Registration: | 
Registered address (if different from above): | 
VAT registration number: | 
Website address: | 
Please mark ‘X’ in the relevant box to indicate whether you are; | Please mark ‘X’ in the relevant box to indicate whether you are;
Bidding as a Prime Contractor and will deliver 100% of the key contract deliverables yourself. | Yes
Bidding as a Prime Contractor and will use third parties to deliver some of the services.
If yes, please provide details of your proposed bidding model in your submission, that includes members of the supply chain, the percentage of work being delivered by each sub-contractor and the key contract deliverables each sub-contractor will be responsible for. | Yes
Bidding as Prime Contractor but will operate as a Managing Agent and will use third parties to deliver all of the services.
If yes, please provide details of your proposed bidding model in your submission that includes members of the supply chain, the percentage of work being delivered by each subcontractor and the key contract deliverables each sub-contract will be responsible for. | Yes
Bidding as a consortium but not proposing to create a new legal entity.
If yes, please include details of your consortium I the next column and use a spate Appendix to explain the alternative arrangements i.e. why a new legal entity is not being created.

Please note that the authority may require the consortium to assume a specific legal form if awarded the contract, to the extent that it is necessary for the satisfactory performance of the contract. | Yes

Consortium members

Lead member
Bidding as a consortium and intend to create a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV).
If yes, please include details of your consortium, current lead member an  intended SPV in the next column and provide full details of the bidding model using a separate Appendix. | Yes

Consortium members

Current lead member

Name of Special Purpose Vehicle
a)
A copy of the most recent audited accounts for your organisation that cover the last two years of trading or for the period that is available if trading for less than two years. Provided that your company qualifies for an audit exemption, then unaudited accounts can be submitted.

If the company has been trading for less than a year management accounts to date are required.
		
In addition to (ii) forecasted management accounts are also required.

NB.     If you have been trading for less than a year and are therefore unable to provide point i and ii, please ensure that you will be able to submit point iii.  All information to be supplied in English. | 
b)  If the organisation is a subsidiary of a group, the above information is required for both the subsidiary and the ultimate parent. | 
c)   Where appropriate it may be necessary to request inter-company guarantees.  Please provide consent. | 
d)   The name and address of your banker. | 
e) Please note that following clause 7.5 of the contract the Supplier will be expected to maintain appropriate and comprehensive insurance cover for its liabilities under the contract.  Please confirm whether you already have, or can commit to obtain such insurance cover prior to the commencement of the contract. | 
 |  | Contract 1 | Contract 2
1 | Customer Organisation (name): |  | 
2 | Customer contact name, phone & email: |  | 
3 | Contract start date:

Contract completion date:

Contract Value: |  | 
3 | Contract start date:

Contract completion date:

Contract Value: |  | 
3 | Contract start date:

Contract completion date:

Contract Value: |  | 
4 | Description of contract, including evidence as to your technical capability in this market.  Please refer to Appendix D for the areas being evaluated and the marking scheme.  Please use further sheets for detailing this section |  | 



