
[PAGE 1]
Engaging with 
New Realities
Barriers in research, technology and distribution  
for immersive content

[PAGE 2]
Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 3 2  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018INTRODUCTION
The view from the top of UK Government is 
unambiguous: 
“The UK has a dual competitive advantage in 
creative and technological skills and our
future prosperity will be driven by this particular 
combination of strengths.” 1
This study set out to examine whether creators, 
researchers and distributors of immersive content 
- including any combination of augmented reality, 
virtual reality, haptics, 3D sound and 360 degree 
video - were working together to build upon and 
exploit this competitive advantage.
The research focused on three main challenges:
1. UK funding for immersive content research 
has been growing year on year 2 - but are the 
awards targeted on overcoming the biggest 
barriers for creators and end users? And are 
the findings of those projects being effectively 
disseminated in a way that accelerates 
knowledge exchange between research 
institutes and businesses, reduces duplication 
of effort and increases productivity?
2. We know that immersive content and “mixed 
reality” in all its forms have applications 
beyond the world of creative content. 
But is there any evidence of new supply 
chains being formed to address those 
opportunities?
3. What are the barriers to distribution 
of immersive content - particularly in 
international markets? Are these barriers 
consistent across all market verticals and 
all immersive technologies? How can public 
policy for innovation and business support 
best promote development and growth of 
this emerging sector in a way that reflects the ‘particular combination of strengths’ 
that have driven the success of UK creative 
industries over the last two decades?
Immersive technologies, such as high-end 
visualisation, virtual, mixed, and augmented 
reality, haptics and other sensory interfaces 
with data, are now common features of 
many consumer devices, integrated with a 
huge range of applications and hardware for 
digital entertainment and education. These 
are significant and growing markets for the 
technology – Deloitte called 2016 as the first 
$1 billion-dollar year for VR, with about 70% of 
that in hardware sales and the rest in content. 
Most commentators agree that the market will 
grow exponentially, with the most optimistic 
predicting combined annual growth rates of 50% 
or more stretching into the next decade leading to 
projections of over $100 billion in annual revenue 
by the mid-2020s.
The drivers of that growth, identified by 
TechCrunch in 2015 as: ‘mobility, vision, immersion, 
usability, flexibility, wearability, and affordability’, are 
also part of the emergence of immersive tech (or 
cross-reality, XR) as a critical factor in increasing 
productivity across British industry. ‘Serious 
games’ – including the ability to train individuals 
in how to deal with hazardous environments 
without exposing them to the dangers of the ‘real 
thing’ – have been widely adopted in a number 
of industries. Immersive technology offers new 
value to a whole range of sectors by recombining 
and providing interfaces for and between other 
key enabling technologies: cyber security, data, 
the internet of things, satellite earth observation, 
electronics, sensors and photonics, robotics and 
autonomous systems. Immersive technology also 
offers new value as a part of digital production: CONTENTS
3 Introduction
5  1. Methodology
8 2. Mapping
13 3. Clusters
19  4. Sectors with emerging immersive content needs  
27 5. Research and facilities
33  6. Policy drivers of business engagement - Science and Innovation Audits Review
35 7. International Insights
39 8. Barriers
45 9. Opportunities
52 Footnotes
Please contact us at  
hello@email
www.website.com

[PAGE 3]
4  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 5
 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 5 4  Title of report goes here   Document type here 20181. METHODOLOGY
This project is one of a number of concurrent 
projects within a broader programme designed 
to help the UK become the global leader in the 
development and commercial exploitation of 
immersive content (predominantly Augmented 
and Virtual - AR/VR technologies). The 
programme aims to help a fragmented, but 
potentially world-leading, set of industries to 
understand the opportunity, scale and capacity of 
the research, development and innovation base 
for immersive technologies and content in the 
United Kingdom.
For this assignment, BOP Consulting, a world-
recognised leader in the mapping and analysis 
of digital and creative industries, partnered with 
Curator Technologies, which has many years’ 
experience in developing bespoke business 
intelligence data and products for nascent 
and established industry sectors by region 
and country. BOP Consulting also partnered 
with Synoptica, whose technology blends both 
traditional methods of aggregating data from 
multiple sources with innovative extraction and 
analysis of unstructured web data. 
Our research followed a five-stage process:
1. A desk-based review of existing databases of BOP Consulting is delighted to have been commissioned by 
Digital Catapult to carry out a study of immersive companies, 
research centres and clusters in the UK to provide evidence 
and recommendations to build business engagement with 
immersive content through uncovering the barriers to research 
and development, and challenges for the commercialisation of 
immersive tech in the UK, including infrastructure.
immersive suppliers, academic research and 
R&D grants; along with a review of Science 
and Innovation Audits and the KTP database, 
to provide more specific intelligence 
about the sources and objectives of public 
investment in R&D. Investment databases 
such as Crunchbase were used to identify 
private sector investments in immersive 
tech.  
2. Analysis of our initial findings was used to 
identify a number of keywords relating to 
the supply and consumption of immersive 
content in a number of market verticals 
agreed with Digital Catapult: 
• Cultural and entertainment content 
(including museums and galleries)
• Manufacturing
• Healthcare (in particular medical training 
and mental health)
• Education
• Construction  
3. These keywords3 were used to ‘train’ 
Synoptica’s AI-driven search technology 
for extracting unstructured web data. The 
results of this search, when augmented with 
geolocation data, were manually analysed used with additive manufacturing processes to 
reduce the time, cost, waste and risk involved in 
producing physical prototypes; to carry out testing 
of fully ‘virtual’ prototypes by emulating ‘real world’ 
conditions and forces; to allow customers to 
sample or ‘try on’ products in virtual environments, 
prior to manufacture or shipping; or to allow for 
‘mass customisation’ of products to individual 
specifications.
The range of research, development, technical, 
human, hardware and software capabilities 
encompassed within the term ‘immersive 
technologies’ is hard to categorise. It cuts across 
many existing sector and occupational definitions, 
and finds its expression in many different market 
verticals. This presents a challenge in trying to 
define the sector, the interdisciplinary research 
capability it needs to harness, and the kinds 
platforms necessary to unlock current technology 
barriers to the development of new applications 
and products.
We see the value of immersive technologies and 
content: both as an emerging high growth sector, 
building on several generations of innovation 
and growth in film, television, videogames, CGI 
and visual effects; and as a significant enabling 
technology in other sectors of national and 
regional importance. It forms part of wider ‘digital 
manufacturing’ and ‘industrial digitalisation.’
“It’s the integration of […] cyber and physical 
technologies into production and logistics that 
allows new businesses to form, increase speed to 
market, integrate and strengthen supply chains, 
and allow productivity gains to be realised.”
(Industrial Digitalisation Report – Interim Report, version 3.0, July 
2017)The recommendations that have emerged from 
the study are:
• Provide content showcases and immersive 
lab facilities across the UK’s cities, regions 
and nations.
• Review the way in which Digital Catapult 
and ImmerseUK combine to deliver network 
support. 
• Engage with local bodies to expand the role 
of city, regional and national administrations 
in supporting immersive clusters.
• Platform interventions - Audiences of the Fu -
ture and beyond - as a way to address superior 
market power of US and Asian tech ‘giants’.
• HEI expertise in research design and proof 
of concept, as much high performance com -
puting and computer science capability, can 
reduce cost and risk of development.
• Consider the use of fiscal and regulatory 
measures as part of a mixed economy 
model to stimulate the growth of the UK 
immersive production content sector.
We hope our findings will provide a vital resource 
to help companies, founders, researchers, policy 
makers, and potential investors to recognise 
their role in building business engagement with 
immersive tech and content across the whole of 
the UK as a vital future driver of jobs, growth and 
productivity in the UK Economy.Introduction

[PAGE 4]
6  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 7and cleansed. Attention was paid to whether 
the companies were active; for evidence of 
research-funded projects translating into 
spin-out companies; and to any patterns 
of cross-ownership between immersive 
suppliers. The cleansed data provided us 
with a footprint for businesses and research 
centres working in immersive tech across 
the UK. From this we were able to map 
supply side companies and the main spatial 
concentrations of production and R&D 
activity both in database form and visually 
using GIS mapping.  
4. In parallel with the keyword search, we 
undertook desk-based research into industry 
reports and trends, and conducted face-
to-face and telephone interviews with key 
respondents in industry, academic and 
research institutions and with investors to 
identify issues, barriers and opportunities 
for the sector. This included comparative 
studies of immersive tech ecosystems 
in North America and China that we 
believed may have developed approaches 
which have helped overcome some of the 
barriers experienced by UK businesses and 
researchers, and have begun to identify 
other market opportunities. These findings 
were used to develop two tools for the final 
stage of the research:
a. A visual ‘example cluster map’ of core 
and supporting elements of an immersive 
business ecosystem;
b. A discussion guide to direct semi-
structured interviews.  
5. The final research stage used the example 
cluster map (shared with respondents) and 
discussion guide as the basis of a series of 
qualitative depth interviews to examine in 
detail the common barriers in technology, 
infrastructure, research, production and 
distribution for immersive content. These were built up as case studies of spatial 
concentrations of businesses and research 
capability across the UK, in most cases 
centred on a city or city region. This 
report sets out the dimensions and spatial 
concentrations of the sector; its most 
significant clusters; a refined definition of the 
barriers to developing scalable technology 
and distribution mechanisms in a number 
of key end user markets; case studies of 
comparable approaches; and our findings 
and recommendations. A separate technical 
appendix provides the statistical data behind 
our analysis and mapping, but as it contains 
commercially sensitive information about 
individuals and businesses and is not ‘opted 
in’, it is not an open data set.
 DATASET SOURCE(S) HOW WE USED IT
Immersive sup -
pliersDigital Catapult, Im -
merseUKCombined and used to define a ‘training 
set’ of keywords for AI search
AI web search of 
suppliersSynoptica To identify XR active companies.
Information on 
companies and 
directorsLinkedIn/DueDil Additional company information; shared 
ownership and groups of companies
Grants for R&D Research Councils UK Identify research projects with an im -
mersive content or tech element; from 
that, build database of research centres 
and private sector partners (suppliers 
and end users), cross-checked against 
list of active companies
Investors Crunchbase Private investors in XR - including 
companies with funding identified by 
Synoptica, which were then manually 
cross referenced to the investor(s)
Funding Directory Immerse UK Other private investments. 
Science and Inno -
vation AuditsBEIS To identify any correlation or causation 
between public policy and immersive 
content activities at a spatial level
Knowledge Trans -
fer PartnershipsInnovate UK To add to our analysis of which HEIs 
were most active in supporting business 
engagement with immersive through 
formal knowledge exchangeFigure 1.  
Data, their sources and how 
we have used them1. Methodology

[PAGE 5]
8  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 9
 8  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
2. MAPPING
We had always intended to undertake visual mapping of 
companies and research centres as a way to identify potential 
clusters of activity. But as we began to analyse the statistical 
data, the mapping took on a greater significance.Figure 2.   
Distribution of 
immersive suppliers
The immersive content sector in the UK is still 
small - around 500 active companies. London is 
home to a large proportion of these; and other 
cities may have only ten or so companies.
We had planned to use Synoptica’s AI-powered 
search of unstructured web data to identify value 
chain relationships between suppliers and end 
users of immersive content and to map these both 
spatially and by market vertical. However, most 
of the supplier web sites were not of high enough 
quality to provide this information.
Similarly, we had hoped that a parallel search of 
websites of research centres would reveal infor -
mation about networks of academic engagement 
with businesses. Again, this expectation was dis -
appointed, as these sites were either insufficiently 
detailed, out of date or in some cases not present!

[PAGE 6]
10  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 11
 10  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 11Figure 3.  
RCUK grants to HEIs 
classified by funding wAt a mid-point of our study, we realised that there 
was no way that we could, in the time allowed,  
generate enough quantitative data to provide 
estimates of the scale of businesses, employment 
and GVA in the sector, and trends in its change 
over time. Much less would we be able to to pin -
point links between immersive suppliers and spe -
cific market verticals in order to articulate value 
chains in the way we had planned. The difficulty 
we had in gathering organised quantitative data 
about the sector confirmed that the market is still 
emerging and is disorganised.
The way in which national statistics are structured 
combines with the nascent stage of the immersive 
industries’ development to make it difficult to find 
alternative ways to accurately map the scale and 
significance of the sector:
• There are no Standard Industrial Classi -
fication codes or Standard Occupational 
Classifications (SIC and SOC codes) that 
would allow us to identify immersive content 
suppliers - and in any event, the most recent 
data available runs only to the end of 2016.
• It may be possible to come up with more 
accurate estimates of employment and 
turnover would be to manually parse records 
available via the Virtual Microdata Laborato -
ry. This requires that an individual researcher 
obtain a specific licence from ONS for a de -
fined set of research questions; and licences 
are only issued under strict conditions.
• Even then, the small number of companies 
in the sector is likely to raise concerns about 
disclosure of individual company details if re -
sults were to be published on anything more 
granular than a national basis.
• Even if all of the above steps were possible, 
many companies include immersive content 
as part of a raft of activities, and there is no 
reliable way in which we could apportion 
revenues, employment and GVA without 
carrying out individual interviews with each company. We know from experience that 
private companies are just that - most are 
reluctant to reveal any but the most broad-
brush details of their activities.  
We therefore changed our approach. Using the 
quantitative data that we had, along with draft 
findings of the Nesta/MTM national survey of 
immersive content and tech, we started to use 
GIS to ‘heat map’ the sector. Adding geolocators 
to our dataset, we began overlaying the data on 
companies, investments, research centres and 
other specialist immersive technology facilities to 
see if we could visually identify any correlations 
between these, which suggested evidence of 
cluster activity.
From this, and the findings of desk-based re -
search and our own knowledge of the sector, we 
selected a group of cities/areas where we found 
greater concentrations of activity and used these 
as the focus of our investigation into clusters. This 
reversed our anticipated process: we were now 
using qualitative data to test the existence and 
significance of value chains for immersive tech in 
market verticals.2. Mapping


[PAGE 7]
12  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 13
 12  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
3. CLUSTERS
Clustering is an important factor in improving productivity 
through sharing of knowledge, tools, skills and access to 
markets. We interviewed respondents from centres across the 
UK, including in all the Nations and in regions in the North, 
the Midlands and South of England, to establish whether 
clustering, as opposed to simple concentrations of business or 
research assets, exists. Figure 4.  [placeholder] 
map of company density 
[final version will overlay 
presence of research 
centres and highlight 
cluster...]
We focused our research on potential clusters 
outside London. Our reasons for this were:
• We were confident that London demonstrat -
ed all of the elements of the immersive tech 
and content ecology.
• London’s immersive sector has been 
mapped in much more detail, and a signif -
icant number of London-based firms are 
subjects of case studies already carried out 
by ImmerseUK - we saw no benefit in repeat -
ing that research.
• Clustering and knowledge transfer are 
‘contact sports’ - as the map shows, London 
demonstrates a much higher density of im -
mersive firms than any other part of the UK.
• Physical proximity, particularly between 
SMEs and the Digital Catapult, means that  
the barriers for business engagement are 
greatly reduced. 
Based on the mapping work, nine UK clusters were 
selected for further investigation. These areas 
reflect different combinations of research and 
business activity, and different stages of matu -
rity in their development towards being national 
‘hot spots’ for immersive activity. Examining the 
industry at this level of geography - typically a city 
or city region - provides a useful investigation. The 
ability to compare and contrast the formation and focus of business engagement with research and 
end users in different cities enhanced our under -
standing of the essential elements of an immersive 
technology ecosystem and acted as a way to focus 
and access the right people to speak to. The nine 
clusters identified represented a mixture of mature 
clusters, emerging clusters, nascent clusters and 
those with specific Digital Catapult Immersive Lab 
facilities. Some are business-led; others catalysed 
by university research and development activity. 
This section provides a summary of the evidence 
from over 30 interviews; full information about the 
clusters is available in the technical appendix. 
We carried out a mix of face-to-face and tele -
phone interviews with local respondents in places 
where our mapping suggested that there was a 
conjunction of research and commercial activity in 
immersive content, to test for evidence of joined-
up activity to support the immersive content sec -
tor. We used a semi-structured interview format 
(see figure 5 below) and paid particular attention 
to responses that indicated the strength (or lack) 
of engagement between research institutions and 
industry. In the absence of clear quantitative data, 
this qualitative approach allowed us to investigate 
what kinds of positive externalities may exist 
in collaborative research and development and 
commercial  transactions in these clusters, and 
whether these spillovers help lower barriers to re -


[PAGE 8]
14  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 14  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 15CLUSTER SNAPSHOT
Belfast Fragmented picture of games SMEs and immersive startups, ad hoc meetups and occasional knowledge 
exchange events with Queens, Belfast and Ulster Universities, the cluster is being encouraged to emerge. 
The city deal, investment from Digital Catapult, and a ‘skunkworks’ team from the games and films sector 
all support the development. Belfast headquartered Kainos software group commission content from the 
cluster, but there is little VC/Angel investment.
Brighton Brighton has a mature immersive content cluster which initially developed organically as e-learning and 
games companies built interest. The growing number of immersive tech companies in the cluster is 
supported by regional programme Wired Sussex, a Digital Catapult Lab, a 5G testbed, and the Universities 
of Brighton and Sussex developing immersive content research and knowledge exchange opportunities 
through public funding.
`
The scene is supported by private sector tech incubators, professional services firms and small-scale VC/
Angel investments. A few larger scale automotive and construction sports sector enterprises commission 
immersive content from within Brighton’s cluster, but with London close by, most larger enterprises look to 
work with companies in London. There are no public or private sector content commissioners or distribu -
tors locally, but there is evidence of public audiences engaging with #pubVR arcades installed and popping 
up in the town’s bars, and through Yes/No Productions’ home showings of their immersive 3D films.
Bristol Although our research revealed a base of fewer than 20 active immersive agencies in Bristol, and fewer 
that 40 in the South West region, the city and surrounding region boasts a strong digital sector a well 
established innovation ecosystem for creative content, with facilities such as the Pervasive Media Lab and 
Engine Shed offering access to funding and partners for collaborative R&D. Bristol VR Lab has been set up 
by the CEO of immersive company OpposableVR to build on the networks developed through the annual 
VR conference it has hosted for three years in Bristol. The VR Lab is a physical space, hosting researchers 
and entrepreneur (‘residents’) from across market sectors and technology applications. The Lab’s financial 
backing comes largely from academic partners - University of Bristol, UWE and Bath Spa University.  Along 
with the academic side,  the VR Lab has engaged with large potential end users of immersive content 
including Airbus, Aardman, BBC and Sony and local academic partners from.
Glasgow The Glasgow immersive content cluster has informally grown as its digital agencies have matured and 
scaled enough to be able to internally invest in immersive R&D. Regional support programmes, such as In -
novation Vouchers, encourage SMEs to develop applied R&D projects with HEIs, which in turn have created 
larger successful InnovateUK and RCUK funded projects, and new spin-outs. The cluster self-organises 
through meet-ups, and through HEIs and SMEs being closely networked. The BBC has worked with the 
Glasgow cluster on reality/spatial and 360 degree film capture, and the film sector is seen as key to the 
cluster to overcome barriers to international markets.
Manchester 
and North 
WestGreater Manchester and its hinterland has significant immersive assets, although the sector is emerging 
rather than mature.  It is home to a number of high profile content providers and indie studios; production 
and post-production facilities (MediaCityUK) and supportive and engaged HEIs.   Our mapping indicates 
that it is a regional cluster with arms in East Cheshire, Warrington, Liverpool and North Wales.   Percep -
tions are that the barrier to entry to immersive technologies are already low.  Significant opportunities in 
creative content (aligning to production and post-production) and health technology.   
North East 
and Tees  
Valley (NETV)The official immersive content sector in NETV has emerged to serve locally located large heavy manu -
facturing industries (such Nissan in the automotive sector), and the public sector (housing and heritage 
sectors). Gateshead City Council, regional support programme Secret Sauce, and the Digital Catapult 
Immersive Lab all enable the cluster, as do a healthy meetups and digital incubator scene.
SMEs and micro businesses have access to kit through the Lab, which reduces their trial and development 
costs. Local HEIs secure public funds for immersive content research and development projects. Better link -
ing this activity into industry is a current aim of the Immersive Lab. Public arcades (VR Gaming Experience in 
Newcastle, Virtual Arcade in Gateshead), annual hosting of national high profile conferences such as VR2GO, 
and the forthcoming Great Exhibition of the North engage end users and general audiences with immersive 
content and kit. The cluster has not yet looked to engage internationally as it is still emerging.CLUSTER ECOSYSTEM
Immersive technology clusters involve a complex 
interaction between start-ups, large established 
firms, higher education, spin outs, support agen -
cies, investment, funding, networks and support 
agencies. The diagram below summarises the 
essential and supporting ecology of immersive 
technology clusters. This diagram was used to Our findings are summarised opposite. The 
accompanying Technical Report provides three 
additional levels of detail:
• Visual representation of various dimensions 
of essential and supporting elements of 
immersive content research and production 
in each place, highlighting comparative 
strengths and gaps.
• A brief ‘snapshot’ of the main characteristics 
of the immersive ecology in that location.
• Analysis of key strengths, barriers and op -
portunities present in each place.prompt conversations with cluster representatives 
and as a way of understanding the complex eco -
systems which are emerging.  
The ‘dimensions’ of the cluster map have been 
built up over time both from reference to other 
business research, tools used by mature content 
and tech clusters in other places and findings of 
applied research. In this case, the map drew upon:
• BCG /Bloomberg report into “Building a 
Digital City” 4
• Application of the above in KTN survey of 
emerging tech clusters out-of-London (2015)
• WIN - Washington Interactive Network - map 
of interactive content cluster in Washington 
State, USA 5search, development, production and distribution 
of immersive content in a way that suggests that 
there is a functioning cluster, or ecosystem.3. Clusters
How well does the example cluster map fit to 
your location?
What’s not there/is extra there locally?
Which key companies/organisations are in 
each section?
Does your cluster contain any complete 
‘supply chains’ of companies?
Are there any hard infrastructure/access to 
special equipment barriers your cluster faces?
To what extent is the cluster informal or 
organised? Who/what are key elements to its 
cohesion? 
To what extent is general market/audience 
demand evident in your location?
• Could your cluster be supported further 
by more research in any sector specific 
area or any technical area? 
• What are the barriers to the UK 
producing globally consumed content?
• What are the barriers to the UK being 
a dominant market leader in the 
immersive content sector?
• Where are supply chains located across 
the UK?
• Do you feel a part of any international 
cluster? 
• Are there any barriers relating to 
working internationally?
Figure 6.  Immersive 
cluster map.Figure 5  Indicative 
questions for cluster 
interviewees


[PAGE 9]
16  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 17
 16  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
Nottingham Although the base of active immersive agencies is small Nottingham has a distinct combination of assets 
- two universities (one Russel group and one post-1992), strong support form the city council, space for 
showcasing (National Video games Arcade) and it is centrally located with good connectivity.  Strong 
culture of collaboration between business and universities and between the two universities in the city.  
Regular networking event, particularly around the medical application of immersive technology.  Strong 
international links led by universities.  
Sheffield The Sheffield cluster has emerged over the past few years mainly due to the efforts of Sheffield Digital, 
a volunteer-run membership organisation which has supported immersive tech and content focussed 
meetups and projects. The cluster grew out of an early recognition amongst local games development 
companies of demand from local manufacturing, CAD and BIM sectors wanting to use immersive tech and 
content to improve their workflows. Identification of a strong games development sector in Sheffield has 
led BBC and C4 to commission immersive content from local suppliers. Both Universities have hatcheries; 
the UK’s largest PlayStation lab is hosted at Sheffield Hallam University, and the Advanced Manufacturing 
Research Centre (AMRC)  at Sheffield University is also encouraging SMEs to taste and test immersive 
content and tech. DocFest’s Alternative Realities strand of programming generates popular opportunities 
for the public to engage with immersive content. 
South Wales Rapidly growing digital sector in South Wales, particularly in Cardiff.  In terms of immersive, our mapping 
suggests only a handful of AR/VR companies in the region, although sector interest in immersive is visible 
- a nascent rather than mature market.  Strong support mechanisms as well as some academic interest 
within Cardiff University around immersive technology, contributes to this developing sector.  Support 
mechanisms may be taking the lead at the moment on immersive technology, rather than industry itself.  
There are strong networks such as Cardiff University’s AR/VR research network, Creative Cardiff, BAFTA 
Cymru and BBC Wales are all trying to engage in the cluster.  
3. Clusters
Essential ecology .  Eight out of nine of the loca -
tion-specific clusters we studied contained all the 
essential elements for the ecology to function. 
The exception was Brighton, which lacks connec -
tivity to public sector commissioners. There are 
elements which, although are present, are weak or 
lack clustering such as demands from local indus -
try sectors (Brighton), connection to public sector 
commissioners (North East and Tees Valley and 
South Wales), connection to Higher Education 
Institutions (Sheffield).  Nottingham’s ecosystem 
focused around Higher Education Institutions, 
therefore many of the other essential elements 
could be strengthened.  In the nascent immersive 
sector in South Wales, there are a number of ele -
ments that could be strengthened including local 
games developers, number of immersive content 
companies and connection to the needs of local 
companies and commissioners.   Supporting ecology :  The most common missing 
elements are access to venture capital and local 
angel investors.  This is lacking or weak in all the 
clusters studies. Other elements that are com -
monly lacking are UK and global distributors and 
public arcades for showcasing and supporting 
public adoption.  
There are clearly ‘cold spots’ to focus attention in 
certain areas and ensure a consistency.  These 
cold spots include research funding (notably Man -
chester), meetups (Belfast), professional services 
(Glasgow) and regional support programmes 
(Sheffield).4. SECTORS WITH EMERGING 
IMMERSIVE CONTENT NEEDS
There are significant differences in barriers to distribution of 
immersive content between market verticals. And while AR 
comes ‘as standard’ with new smartphones, fragmentation of 
platforms and hardware for VR has impacts across the value 
chain of a number of content sectors.
4.1 CREATIVE CONTENT
The risks and barriers involved in production of 
creative immersive content can be seen as a con -
tinuum between lower risk, highly curated environ -
ments and high risk, mass market entertainment.
The cultural heritage sector was generally 
described as a mature and active commissioner 
- for example, in Belfast, where the Titanic Belfast 
Experience is hosted, local immersive content 
companies were being commissioned to create VR 
experiences for the visitor attractions there (see 
Technical Appendix cluster case study). Strong 
multidisciplinary partnerships, such as the Universi -
ty of York-led DC Labs (see below), build on existing 
communities of academic practice and produce 
experiences (on the whole) for controlled, curated 
gallery environments. It is maybe unsurprising, 
therefore, that a disproportionate number of Re -
search Council funded projects are in this sector.
However, UK immersive content companies in the 
Brighton, Sheffield and Glasgow clusters reported 
rarely getting to participate in the bigger interna -
tional commissions in the cultural heritage and 
construction sections from China or the Middle 
East unless they were working as a subcontractor 
in a Department for International Trade-sponsored 
High Value campaign. 
Barriers
Some things are experienced as common barriers 
to distribution of entertainment content:• End user expectations of the quality of VR/
AR product are much higher than that in 
other formats, so more finance is required at 
the seed stage of project - which creates a 
ratcheting of risk and cost for new content.
• Fragmentation of distribution platforms and 
hardware is constraining take up of VR. In VR 
games, like early days of mobile, there is not 
a predictable ROI: suppliers are waiting for 
the equivalent of the app stores. SteamVR is 
the most used platform at present.
• This fragmentation is a factor in the lower 
than anticipated levels of adoption of HMDs - 
but perception/reality of nausea and the fact 
that many people just don’t want to engage 
with them as a way to interact with content 
- “they are anti-social, by design” - are also 
barriers.
• Uncertainty around whether technical 
architectures will be scalable and sustaina -
ble for mass distribution of content: e.g., the 
proposition for 5G relies heavily on a lot on 
AR/VR, but the architectures are not fit for 
purpose and latency is a big problem. High 
Performance Computing offers some solu -
tions but none that are obvious and scalable 
at this point.
Opportunities
• There are opportunities for further conver -
gence of screen media sectors:
• In Belfast and Manchester there is currently 
an unmet potential in the convergence of 

[PAGE 10]
18  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 19 18  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018Publishing case study
An interview with Kayode Josiah, FT’s Director of Commercial Development, highlighted the prevailing busi -
ness models, supply chains and barriers to adoption of immersive tech in the publishing sector. 
Technology
AR has become a much more interesting proposition, because it crosses over different formats - and AR 
on your phone massively increases market penetration, and therefore scope for publishers to work with 
advertisers and immersive content providers.
The ‘hype’ around VR has subsided for three reasons:
• Distribution is a barrier: unless you have a bespoke app, you are left with 360 video on Facebook or 
YouTube - neither content nor form is interesting
• Limitation of the VR outputs: the experience still falling short of expectations and mass acceptance
• Limitation imposed by HMDs: not enough market scale and, “anti-social by design”
For that reason, ‘true’ VR is limited to specialist platforms- Vive gaming, for example - which hit a narrower, 
premium market of early adopters.
Business models
1. Advertiser funded : made in partnership with advertiser. This requires courage on both parts, as 
creative content ideas need to fit with the brand; this is very difficult to design and test, and therefore 
return on investment is very hard to determine.
2. Editorial : though still tricky to force editorial into formats that aren’t designed for it.
3. Third-party content provider : testing content with a publisher and using its channels as a distribution 
platform. In this space, investment is coming mostly from the platforms themselves.
Barriers
• Advertisers are not willing to spend the amounts needed to create bespoke VR content, particularly of 
a quality that reflects the brand values of more up-market brands and publishers
• Benefits of immersive content over making really good video content are unclear
• Limitations of distribution (dependency on third-party apps and platforms) makes it hard to drive 
traffic in conventional ways that can also help brands and publishers grow value.
Opportunities
• Audio products - such as smart speakers - have potential4.2 MEDICAL TRAINING
Immersive content applications - mostly AR, 
but also some XR - offer a number of potential 
benefits for medical training. Its advantages over 
‘traditional’ training include:
• Reducing the patient hazards involved in 
training - or even removing the patient from 
the process altogether
• Allowing for repetition and recording of com -
plex procedures that would not be possible 
with a live patient
• Enhancement and visualisation of data that 
can assist in decision making in complex 
and hazardous procedures where the 
• Familiarisation with equipment 
Barriers
But there are barriers that immersive content 
suppliers, particularly those that come from a 
commercial content production background and 
have no grounding in medical research or clinical 
practice, need to take into account:• The need to address research design, and 
design and management of clinical trials.
• Understanding the regulatory environment.
• Understand use case: for patients, clinicians, 
nursing staff - who is responsible for making 
sure the tech and software is working, and 
properly set up? That it is cleaned for the 
next use? That its use will not have any side 
effects?
• Expressing benefits in ways that are relevant 
and meaningful for patients and commis -
sioners - time saved, cost reduced, life 
expectancy extended, rather than ‘features’.
• Questions about scalability - what may work 
for one-to-one surgical training may not be 
appropriate for a lecture hall of 150 medical 
students.
• We found no evidence of publicly funded 
research into use of immersive content in 
context of mental health.
Opportunities
• This is an area in which HEI research helps 
content creators, particularly those whose 
experience is mainly of entertainment, mar -
keting or VFX, to develop an understanding 
of problem definition and process that al -
lows specialists and end users in other fields 
to explore and exploit their own responses in 
real time.  This is a critical success factor in 
any health or social care application.
• Businesses coming from content sectors - 
typically SMEs - often have no appreciation 
of research design clinical trials, regulatory 
and pedagogical requirements involved in 
getting a product to market in other sectors 
with stricter requirements around health, 
safety and privacy. But this is a problem that 
university researchers have addressed and 
there is potential to help SMEs to appreciate 
this before they commit resource to develop -
ment of new products.post-production, CGI, games, film and TV 
supply chains to address scalable opportuni -
ties in research,development and distribu -
tion of immersive content. This is reflected
• Better links with Sheffield’s strong independ -
ent film sector, which (boosted by DocFest) 
has a global reputation for short-form and 
documentary content, and the benefits of 
Sheffield’s rich cultural offer could be better 
showcased and leveraged to attract digital 
graduates to stay, settle, and develop the 
immersive content sector.
• The announcement of DCMS investment of 
£5m in a West of England 5G Smart Tourism 
testbed should is designed to stimulate de -
livery of enhanced AR/VR experiences for tour -
ists at major attractions in Bath and Bristol.6

[PAGE 11]
20  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 21
 20  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
Key:
Strong presence
Some presence, not strongly clustered
Little or no presence4.3 MANUFACTURING
The advanced and high value manufacturing sec -
tor now has well established work practices and 
processes which are optimised through immersive 
content. This is providing local commissioning 
opportunities for immersive content companies 
where manufacturing industries have recognised 
the commercial value of, and have invested in, 
immersive technologies. This effect is observed 
in manufacturing hubs across the Midlands, in 
HIVE’s work with the offshore energy sector in 
Hull, and our case studies show that it can be seen 
to add strength to emerging immersive content 
clusters in Glasgow and Sheffield. The High Value 
Manufacturing Catapult has provided access to 
immersive facilities and content to manufactur -
ing businesses of all scales to encourage them 
to taste and test the value of augmented, virtual, 
and mixed reality technologies and content. This 
provides an independent environment where exec -
utives can receive bespoke advice about what kit 
they should buy, and develops immersive content 
ecologies in the locations of the company inves -
tors. Larger companies such as Rolls Royce now 
have their own VR Cave environments and many 
companies are also investing in smart glasses for 
training and working in high risk environments.
Siemens Digital Factory now uses VR for both 
product and factory design following its experi -
ence of the High Value Manufacturing Catapult 
(HVMC)’s virtual reality 3D cave. Tata Steel has 
designed its newest Proving Factory assembly fa -
cility concept through analysing 3D models of the 
assembly cells using VR validation of assembly 
designs and processes. DESTACO UK has been 
supported to create a virtual workshop and digital 
press shop for factory planning, and planning 
automation processes. 7  These companies, each 
with multiple locations across the UK, have made 
use of the facilities provided in  HVMC’s labs in 
regions across the UK.As well as improving design, immersive content 
also improves safety in manufacturing by allowing 
humans to train and practice (and fail) in a virtual 
environment with dangerous machinery where they 
can neither get hurt, nor injure others. Other sec -
tors, and emergency services, can use immersive 
content to simulate complex and dangerous situa -
tions, facilitating training for them. The Immersive 
Hybrid Reality Lab in Rosyth trains offshore wind 
technicians in the renewable energy sector through 
content created in a collaboration by Annimersion, 
Heriot Watt University and Fife College 8.
Immersive content is helping the automotive 
sector overcome resistance amongst the general 
public to the benefits of new autonomous vehi -
cles. The Transport System Catapult has a VR 
simulation open to the public in Milton Keynes 
which allows vehicle manufacturers to test citi -
zens’ reactions to autonomous transport 9. Here, 
immersive content is clarifying the misconcep -
tions around autonomous vehicles, and showing 
the vehicle designers ways to reduce fear, thus 
hastening an innovation’s time to market.
HIGH VALUE MANUFACTURING  
CATAPULT (HVMC): A NATIONAL  
IMMERSIVE CONTENT CLUSTER  
AND FACILITY
Credit: Advanced Forming Research Centre


[PAGE 12]
22  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 23
 22  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
Snapshot
HVMC differs from the other, geographically-based 
cluster case studies, in that it is looking to define 
a national network centred upon its immersive lab 
facilities at the Advanced Manufacturing Research 
Centre (AMRC) and Advanced Forming Research 
Centre (AFRC). Its regional centres operate as a 
self-organised national network; as such, HVMC 
has all the essential and supporting elements of 
the map, with an important addition: platform de -
velopers. HVMC explicitly recognises as essential 
the value to the ecology of the creators of VR/AR 
software development kits and immersive content 
development platforms. Staff at the regional labs 
frequently meet to plan and support each other. 
Businesses are actively approached to engage with 
the research centres. Within the manufacturing 
sector, the business case is accepted that immer -
sive tech and content derisks and reduces costs 
in the development cycle, and offers safe training 
environments as added value.
Strengths
• The HVMC network supports SMEs and 
large enterprises by providing access to 
immersive tech kit for ‘tasting and testing’ at 
all its regional centres. 
• Barriers to entry are falling in terms of cost 
and reliability of technology and its interop -
erability, and the centres offer independent 
advice on kit and content.
Barriers
• Interoperability of the tech and data, and latency. 
• Legislative differences between international 
jurisdictions make digital rights manage -
ment and data protection difficult. 
Opportunities
• Further research into immersive sound and 
audio, haptic and olfactory feedback, and 
the psychological and biological impact of 
working in immersive environments.
• They also recommended studies to look into the cultural aspects of how avatars look, and 
into gestures for operation that might have 
different meanings in different cultures.
4.4 EDUCATION 
MGL CASE STUDY
“We can sell as much immersive content as we can 
get our hands on”
Carl Gilbertson, CEO, MGL
Trading since 2000, MGL is the largest independ -
ent supplier of IT to schools in UK. MGL provides 
technology, support, consultancy and learning 
services through a team of fully qualified teachers 
who deliver programmes mapped to school curric -
ulum topics. MGL focuses on Primary Schools, as 
rich media teaching features predominantly at Key 
Stages 1 and 2 of the national curriculum10. CEO 
of MGL, Carl Gilbertson, spoke of how immersive 
was beginning to take hold in schools since the 
advent of robust technologies such as Aventis’ 
ClassVR HMD11, which has its own content portal. 
“Our teaching resources can complement schools’ 
infrastructure, giving access to recent innovations 
with massive learning potential such as 3D printers, 
humanoid robots, and Virtual Reality equipment.”
Carl Gilbertson, CEO, MGL
Early attempts at bringing immersive content 
into the classroom, such as Google Expeditions and 
Google Cardboard, had perhaps hampered uptake 
as the cardboard headsets were too flimsy and the 
content was of low visual quality and poorly mapped 
to the curriculum. This had led to teachers feeling that 
VR was just a gimmick, even though children were en -
gaged with the technology, and to school IT staff be -
ing unable to support the technology. To Carl, Google 
Cardboard represented an early attempt at seeding a 
new technology and he knew that once more robust 
hardware entered the market, MGL would be able to 
explore immersive education opportunities. 
The arrival of affordable and robust hardware - Class VR headsets are £100 each - has lowered barriers 
around technology. Content is now, in Carl’s view, 
the real missing element: and unlike adult users, 
children have a qualified expectancy of immersive 
content rather than presuming an opulent experi -
ence. In order to address this gap, MGL’s learning 
team has started to deliver sessions in schools, 
teaching children how to create 360 video to upload 
to the ClassVR portal and using SketchUp modelling 
software to create basic 3D environments. 
MGL already has reseller agreements with compa -
nies producing content, including Curiscope who 
have developed ‘Virtuali-Tee’, an augmented reality 
T-Shirt that helps to teach anatomy. However, 
even if Curiscope is only used once, there is fur -
ther opportunity for content that is mapped to the 
curriculum, particularly in STEM subjects. 
In terms of UK Market size, £50bn is devolved 
to UK schools to staff and run their schools, of 
which around £9bn is allocated for discretionary 
spend on additional services, including software. 
Carl estimates that 5% (£450m) of this budget is 
potentially available for immersive content.
Barriers
• Concerns about durability of some equip -
ment (eg Google Cardboard HMDs) and abil -
ity of school technicians to manage set-up 
- although these are in the main addressed 
by emergence of robust equipment, such as 
Class VR, that comes ‘bundled’ with content.
• Gap in take up of digital technology at 
secondary school level - the market for rich 
media content is dominated by primary 
schools and HEIs.
Opportunities
• Carl has connected with the local VR 
community in Liverpool to explore the costs 
involved in creating historic and scientific 
immersive environments. MGL could sell 
each for around £250.  4.5 CONSTRUCTION
High Value Manufacturing Catapult’s virtual reality 
3D cave programme has helped contractors in 
collaborative construction projects to co-design 
more reliable blueprints at an earlier point in the 
process, reducing cost and speeding up decision 
processes in the physical construction process. 
Architects have used the HVMC’s VR3D cave to 
create immersive visualisations of architectural 
designs, allowing their clients to make decisions 
from “walking around” the visual data12. Similarly, 
augmented reality in construction is creating 
complete supply chains. Glasgow has a large 
consortium led by immersive content experts 
Solius/Sublime, and supported by the Advanced 
Forming Research Centre at Strathclyde University 
which has attracted a large InnovateUK grant for 
developing an Augmented Construction Worker 
system13. The strength of knowledge exchange 
between industry and HEIs in Glasgow, and the  
applied research projects which have come out 
this, are noted as strengthening the Glasgow 
Cluster.
Architectural visualisation agency, Uniform, has 
been offering Virtual and Augmented services 
to its client base for around 4 years. Nick Howe, 
CEO of Uniform, describes a trend, which has 
accelerated noticeably over the last 18 months, 
for clients to initiate conversations on immersive 
technologies, which are seen less as a gimmick. 
He estimates that currently around 80% of devel -
opment projects are now considering how they 
use VR and AR. 
The main deliverable of this work is at large 
events, such as MIPIM, where VR displays are 
used as an engagement tool for potential investors 
and existing stakeholders. Howe observed at a 
recent development launch in Dubai that users of 
all ages were queuing to use the headsets. Clients, 
however, still view AR and VR as a way to engage 
with Millennials, who are considered to be a hard 

[PAGE 13]
24  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 25
 24  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
audience to attract. Projects that Uniform have 
developed that are influenced by this issue include 
the augmented reality project for Harrow that 
brings printed maps to life to show the potential of 
the council’s regeneration plans (shown opposite.)
4.6 VISITOR ECONOMY
Scotland has had great download levels and 
remarkable feedback from around the globe for 
the popular VR Scotland app, a publicly funded 
collaborative project between the Scottish aca -
demic, technology and tourism sectors which has 
allowed international visitors to dream and plan 
their visits. In the first year the app had 52,000 
installs, an average of 1,000 per week. The top 
two countries for installs are UK & USA but also 
ranking in the top 6 are Australia, Canada, France 
& Germany so it has been far reaching.In the same 
period, there were 162,000 engagements with the 
real 360 degree content within the app.
 
But this seems to be an isolated success. 
Although trials with immersive tech have taken 
place over a long period - 360 video has been 
used online as long ago as 1998, and Liverpool 
worked with Nokia to develop an AR visitor 
economy app for its year as European Capital 
of Culture 2008 - the technology has not been 
widely adopted. 
To establish what barriers existed, we interviewed 
Richard Veal, MD of New Mind, an agency that pro -
vides Destination Management Systems (DMS) to national and regional tourist boards, city councils 
and tourism associations across Europe, support -
ing the entire marketing and business activities of 
tourism destinations.
The company has been established for 20 years, 
and recently acquired its major UK competitor 
to control the majority of the UK Destination 
Management market; it is well placed to comment 
on the potential for immersive content within the 
tourism sector.
Richard reinforced that the key focus within the 
tourism industry is to drive visitor numbers and 
even though there is potential for immersive tech 
to be used as pre-visit activity he had seen no 
demand from consumers or from the destinations 
themselves. 
Barriers
The reasons for this mirror the barriers to take up 
in publishing, observed in our interview with the 
F T:
• Low levels of consumer usage (and there -
fore, evidence of increased spend) from 
trials of 360 degree video
• High upfront cost of immersive content, with 
uncertain ROI associated with technologies 
(particularly VR) with low levels of adoption 
of consumer equipment (eg, HMDs).
• Fragmented distribution networks, especially 
for VR content, make it difficult to drive on -
line traffic to it, track the customer journey, 
and measure its impact..
• Destinations prefer to spend budget on high 
quality photographs and videos.
Opportunities
• The announcement of DCMS investment of 
£5m in a West of England 5G Smart Tourism 
testbed should is designed to stimulate 
delivery of enhanced AR/VR experiences 
for tourists at major attractions in Bath and 
Bristol.14 4. Sectors with emerging immersive content needs
Uniform AR project for Harrow at Mipim

[PAGE 14]
26  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 27
 26  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
5. RESEARCH AND FACILITIES
This section looks at ways in which of two ways in which busi -
nesses might seek to address barriers to research by engage -
ment  with the UK immersive knowledge base:
• Through access to, or collaborative research and development with, acknowledged 
centres of research excellence (as reflected in research funding success and evidence of 
industry engagement)
• Through knowledge exchange, measured by the number of InnovateUK-funded 
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships in related areas of content or technologyRESEARCH  
FACILITYSNAPSHOT
HIVE (Hull Immersive 
Visualisation Environ -
ment) – University 
of Hull Part of the School of Engineering and Computer Science, Hull Immersive Vis -
ualisation Environment (known as HIVE) provides researchers and industrial 
clients with an array of advanced visualisation, motion capture and computer 
graphics technology. HIVE's resources include a virtual reality immersive 
cube, VR theatre and gigapixel wall facilities, plus wearable devices. Its work 
focuses around health and safety training environments (particularly offshore 
energy and fire and rescue) and medical training. It works with local SMEs 
across a range of sectors
Digital Creativity Labs 
University of York 
(Lead partner), Gold -
smiths and Falmouth 
UniversityDigital Creativity Labs (DC Labs) is an interdisciplinary laboratory and think 
tank focusing on research and innovation in games, interactive media and the 
space where they converge. Drawing on funding from 3 research councils, 
four universities and over 80 collaborative partners organisations (including 
potential commissioners of immersive content) it brings together 30 world-
class researchers to take a multidisciplinary approach to research. Its focus 
on gaming, entertainment and museums and galleries ensures close engage -
ment with specific industry partners across its research programme.  
The Centre for Vision, 
Speech and Signal 
Processing (CVSSP) – 
University of SurreyImmersive is a growing part of CVSSP’s activity and current work is focused 
on game-changing technologies to take augmented reality (AR) in television 
and virtual reality (VR) cinema to the next level in a project called ALIVE. This 
project is a industry collaboration with a small production company which 
aims to develop the technologies required to capture live-action content as a 
fully immersive Virtual Reality experience, where the viewer has the freedom 
to move inside the content.
Virtual Environments 
and Computer 
Graphics & Immersive 
Virtual Environments 
Laboratory - Universi -
ty College LondonA long established centre of research excellence, focusing on how to make 
virtual reality effective including research into what makes a difference to 
people's sense of presence in a virtual environment and co-presence with 
other people. The Immersive Virtual Environments Laboratory is run by the 
Virtual Environments and Computer Graphics (VECG) group and acts as the 
group’s engagement facility. The Lab utilises a variety of technologies to 
enhance the illusion of immersion - including a three wall CAVE projection and 
very high quality audio.  The Lab promotes UCL’s Virtual Research activity to 
Industry, Public Sector and Academia and undertaking cutting edge collabo -
rative research and testing - including studying phenomena which would be 
too dangerous or costly to study in reality.  This section draws on the following analysis:
• Database analysis (Research Council UK and 
InnovateUK funding)
• Desk research and Interviews with key aca -
demics, and
• Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) 
database search. 
5.1  BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT WITH 
IMMERSIVE RESEARCH FACILITIES 
We carried out case studies on a number of re -
search facilities that represent a variety of success -
ful approaches to business engagement. Three of 
them demonstrate high levels of engagement with 
both end users and immersive suppliers in defined 
market verticals. UCL’s Immersive Virtual Environ -
ments Laboratory takes a different approach, pro -
moting its advances in theory and development of 
tools for a range of applications through academic 
publishing and presence at national and interna -
tional conferences. All of them provide access to 
immersive lab facilities in ways that make them 
more accessible to business engagement.
Some of the commercial and academic research 
centres we  approached were unwilling to discuss 
their work with us, reflecting sensitivities about 
intellectual property and competitive advantage.Barriers
• In the SME market, there is a gap between 
expectations of what the technology can do 
and expertise in dealing with the technology.  
• There is a growing appetite from companies 
to understand how they can use immersive 
technologies either to sell more to custom -
ers, or within their working practices. 
• Education and information is a key issue 
in non-digital sectors. Many firms have a 
poor understanding of what is out there and 
where the opportunities lie.  Training could 
be used to address this.  
Opportunities
• As more content is created, it will contribute 
to a critical mass of assets and environ -
ments which will in turn lead to confidence 
within industry.  
• In terms of barriers to business engage -
ment and utilisation of assets, the value of 
a large immersive environments is hard to 
explain and much better understood through 
experiencing them.  It can make it difficult to 
market/communicate with potential users 
through standard routes such as conferenc -
es and trade shows.  

[PAGE 15]
28  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 29
 28  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018
RESEARCH  
CENTRESHIVE (HULL IMMERSIVE VISUALISATION ENVIRONMENT) 
– UNIVERSITY OF HULL
Real-world applications of large scale applications of ‘untethered’ immersive content for industry built 
upon fundamental research into virtual environments.
Snapshot
Part of the School of Engineering and Computer 
Science, Hull Immersive Visualisation Environ -
ment (HIVE) provides researchers and industrial 
clients with an array of advanced visualisation, 
motion capture and computer graphics tech -
nology. Founded in 2002, HIVE focused upon 
fundamental research 
in virtual environments 
within sectors where 
his research team had 
connections and saw 
the most opportuni -
ties: medical imaging, 
guided surgery, haptics 
and aerospace. 
HIVE’s current work is 
mainly based upon health and safety training envi -
ronments and medical training. Health and safety 
work is for two main sectors: Offshore Wind, for 
Siemens and Dong Energy, and Fire and Rescue, for 
Humberside Fire & Rescue Services. It also works 
with local SMEs across a range of sectors
Strengths
• HIVE's resources include a virtual reality 
immersive cube, VR theatre and gigapixel 
wall facilities, plus wearable devices.
• Training is delivered through a mixture of 
VR Headsets and Cave/Cube environments, 
but over the years the team has found that 
HIVE’s large immersive spaces offer the best 
to promote immersive capabilities. 
Barriers
• For HIVE itself the barrier to further dissem -
ination is around technology and its mobility 
as the large environments really sell immer -
sive to industry. The team at Hive speak at 
events around UK but it is hard to sell the 
full experience without the environment . The dependence on these physical envi -
ronments means that distance is a barrier 
for end users: HIVE’s work in aerospace 
fell away when British Aerospace moved to 
Preston.
• The SME market demonstrates a very real gap 
in terms of expectancy of the technology and 
that there is no expertise in house to be able to 
deal with technology demands, even ones as 
basic as digital connectivity. A good example is 
a law firm that wanted to create virtual meeting 
spaces but whose broadband service did not 
allow them even to Skype between sites. 
• Education is still an issue: most of the indus -
tries HIVE connects to are non-digital and 
therefore have a very poor understanding of 
what is out there and where the opportuni -
ties lie . There is a need for dissemination and 
fundamentals training events. 
• There is a shortage of content developers 
(individuals and companies) in the local 
supply chain. HIVE believes that content is 
key, as the more environments and assets 
that can be created the better .  In order to 
service its Offshore work, HIVE has a rela -
tionship with an offshore assets company 
in India.
Opportunities
• There has been a growing uptake from stu -
dents of the final year VR and Virtualisation 
Module - from 20 to 69 in the last year. This 
may start to address HIVE’s need for more 
content providers as demand grows.
• In the past two years, HIVE has observed 
growing appetite from companies to under -
stand how they can use Immersive Tech -
nologies either to sell or within their working 
practices. Over 50 SMEs have visited the HIVE, 
leading to projects with Wren Kitchens and 
local manufacturers of Static Caravans.RESEARCH  
CENTRESDIGITAL CREATIVITY LABS (DC LABS) 
– UNIVERSITY OF YORK 
Multi-university and multidisciplinary partnership with a clear strategic focus on immersive content and 
user experience within entertainment, heritage and gallery experiences.
SNAPSHOT
Digital Creativity Labs (DC Labs) is an interdisci -
plinary laboratory and think tank focusing on re -
search and innovation in games, interactive media 
and the space where they converge.  Drawing on 
funding from three research councils, three part -
ner universities and over 80 collaborative partner 
organisations (including potential commission -
ers of immersive content) it brings together 30 
world-class researchers to take a multidisciplinary 
approach to research.  Its focus on gaming, en -
tertainment and museums and galleries ensures 
close engagement with specific industry partners 
across its research programme. 
Strengths
• Partnership of University of York (Lead), 
Goldsmiths and Falmouth University.
• Strong track record of successful funding 
applications - £18 million from RCUK to date.
• Partner organisations gain access to a huge 
range of research, benefiting from new 
ideas, cross-collaboration and participa -tion in a community of innovative, active 
thinkers. They become an integral part of 
this community, and enjoy the opportunity to 
arrange visits, brainstorms, and technology 
review sessions, with preferential access to 
intellectual property.
• The multidisciplinary nature of the DC Labs 
team - Computer Science, Theatre, Film & TV, 
History & Heritage and Psychology - gives 
partner organisations access to a huge range 
of research and, in particular, preferential 
access to intellectual property.
• DC Labs’ website and social media dis -
semination is highly engaging, pointing to 
an organisation that wants to engage with 
industry at all levels. 
• DC Labs is branded separately to the 
Universities, which helps to give it the feel 
of an organisation engaged in cutting edge 
research projects rather than a University 
Department. 
DC Labs Image 
credit needed.]HIVE Image credit 
needed.]
https://www.digitalcreativity.ac.uk/


[PAGE 16]
30  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 31
RESEARCH  
CENTRESTHE CENTRE FOR VISION, SPEECH AND SIGNAL PROCESSING (CVSSP) 
– UNIVERSITY OF SURREY
Symbiotic relationship between an advanced technical research facility and companies in the cluster it has 
helped foster, returning value in the form of new techniques and tools for immersive content production.
SNAPSHOT
CVSSP is one of the major research centres of the 
Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences at the 
University of Surrey. Founded in 1986 within Surrey’s 
Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, 
its aim is to advance the state of the art in multime -
dia signal processing and computer vision, with a 
focus on image, video and audio applications.
CVSSP is structured into six research labs in Ma -
chine Audition, Biometrics and Security, Cognitive 
Systems, Multimedia Communications, Medical 
Imaging and Visual Media. 
Strengths
• University of Surrey has an impressive 
gaming and digital media heritage, and is a 
driver for the established games cluster in 
and around Guildford. 
• The Centre’s expertise and activities span 
computer vision, digital signal processing, 
machine learning and artificial intelligence, 
computer graphics and human computer 
interaction, medical image analysis and 
multimedia communication.
• Strong track record of collaborative R&D 
with large corporations, funded as academic 
research directly from the Research councils. Example project: ALIVE
Immersive content is a growing part of CVSSP’s 
activity and current work is focused on 
game-changing technologies to take augmented 
reality (AR) in television and virtual reality (VR) 
cinema to the next level, ALIVE.
ALIVE is an eighteen-month industrial partnership 
between visual FX and 3D agency, Foundry, a local  
SME, Figment Productions, and CVSSP, funded 
by InnovateUK. The collaboration aims to develop 
the technologies required to capture live-action 
content as a fully immersive Virtual Reality expe -
rience, where the viewer has the freedom to move 
inside the content.
ALIVE uses lightfield technologies to capture 
live-action performance from many viewpoints. 
The goal is to develop the data-processing 
techniques and post-production tools to prepare 
volumetric live-action elements from lightfield 
capture, and deliver the elements into a game 
engine for real-time rendering. The result is a truly 
immersive experience where the live action video 
content reproduces the parallax you see in the real 
world, a concept termed ‘Positional VR’.CVSSP Image 
credit needed.]RESEARCH  
CENTRESVIRTUAL ENVIRONMENTS AND COMPUTER GRAPHICS (VECG)  
IMMERSIVE VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENTS LABORATORY 
- UNIVERSITY COLLEGE LONDON
Will one of the UK’s longest-established and most prestigious immersive labs be able to translate its 
cutting edge research into industrial collaboration after quarter of a century in pursuit of theoretical and 
research excellence?
SNAPSHOT
An established centre of research excellence 
dating back to 1994, VECG’s ultimate objective is a 
theory of virtual reality: to make VR ‘‘work’ in a giv -
en application context and with given resources, 
what is the best approach to take, what is the best 
algorithm, interaction and rendering style to use?
Strengths
• It undertakes cutting edge collaborative 
research and testing - including studying 
phenomena which would be too dangerous 
or costly to study in reality.  
• Since its inception in 2000 the lab has incorpo -
rated novel technology advances in projection, 
tracking, acoustics and interaction to remain at 
the state of the art. This includes a CAVE-hy -
brid projection theatre in which the user is pre -
sented with high-resolution stereo-pair images 
projected in real-time on 3 walls and the floor.
• VCEG’s research spans a range from 
real-time computer graphics rendering to 
human factors issues in virtual reality. A 
common theme is to understand how to 
make virtual reality effective. It does this 
through experiments with participants, in 
order to examine just what makes a differ -ence to their sense of presence in the virtual 
environment, and their sense of co-presence 
with other people.
Barriers
• Most of VECG’s legacy work has been core 
funded from RCUK, and, whilst the Immer -
sive Virtual Environments Lab acts as the 
interface between UCL’s virtual research 
activity and industry, public sector and aca -
demia, to date there has been little promo -
tion of industry collaboration.
Opportunities
A number of opportunities for VCEG to translate 
its research into commercial applications of 
immersive content exist, including:
• Research on the issues involved in populating 
virtual environments with crowds. This is not 
only a technically interesting challenge, but 
from experimental work with empty environ -
ments, places without people don’t work.
• Additionally, the group are very interested in 
making virtual characters realistic, so that you 
will want to engage with them. What makes 
characters realistic: photorealism, geometrical -
ly accurate, natural gestures and movements? 
VCEG Immersive 
Virtual 
environments 
Lab. Image credit 
needed.]

[PAGE 17]
32  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 33
AREA EXPERTISE
South West and 
South East WalesCreative content
Aerospace, energy, education/sci -
ence communication, wearable 
technology. 
Greater  
ManchesterVirtual Engineering – prototyping 
development and testing 
Virtual connected workspace
Midlands Transport Visualisation, Manufac -
turing Environments
East of England Creative applications/ content – 
visual effects and gaming 
Innovation South Virtual training environments 
(orthopaedic, child protection)
Creative content and Internet of 
place
Liverpool City 
Region Virtual Engineering – range of 
sectors, starting to link to hospi -
tal/health setting6. POLICY DRIVERS OF BUSINESS 
ENGAGEMENT - SCIENCE AND 
INNOVATION AUDITS REVIEW
Science and innovation audits (SIA) are independent reports, 
intended to provide city and regional policy makers with an 
evidence base for investment decisions. 31 SIAs15 have been 
commissioned/chosen in three waves.  Wave one16 and two17 
are complete; wave three18 have been chosen but have not yet 
reported. The geographies for these do not align with LEP, LA 
or devolved administration boundaries.  
The first twelve audits are available for review and 
there is some background information on the oth -
ers which may indicate whether immersive tech/AI/
AR/VR are likely to place a key part in the evidence.  
Our review of the Science and Innovation Audits 
helped to:
• Identify areas which have expertise or aspi -
ration around immersive technology, focus -
ing on creative content, manufacturing and 
health (mental health and medical training)
• Document what these aspirations/areas of 
expertise are
• Identify what support is being offered for 
businesses in the areas
In terms of focus and amount of attention for im -
mersive technology, the one stand-out audit is the 
single SIA covering South West England & South 
East Wales.  This identifies clusters of active busi -
nesses, key research/support assets and future 
plans for a VR Hub. Figure 7.  SIA review 
of key immersive 
technology expertise/
assets Barriers
• SIAs provide a useful round up of where the 
immersive technology assets are; but contain 
little about the aspirations of regions around 
immersive technology.
• Apart from South West England & South 
East Wales, there is little evidence of areas 
taking a strategic approach to supporting 
immersive technology research or develop -
ment. None of the other audits identify so 
clearly how the opportunities for immersive 
technology are being addressed regionally.  
Opportunities
There are clearly opportunities to link immersive 
technology with the smart specialisations and 
other market opportunities across a number of 
sectors.  
Digital Catapult could help plug gaps in thinking 
around immersive technology in:  
• Health technology – Leeds and Liverpool 
city regions
• Data driven innovation – Edinburgh and 
South East Scotland
• Advanced manufacturing – Sheffield city 
region and Lancashire, Midlands
• Operations and maintenance – North of 
England and Scotland offshore renewable 
energy consortium6.1 KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER  
PARTNERSHIPS
Whilst the growth of Immersive Labs and inno -
vation centres is a healthy indicator of increas -
ing business engagement, we also wanted to 
understand how other formal knowledge transfer 
mechanisms were being used to address barriers 
in research. Our analysis of the current and com -
pleted knowledge transfer partnership database 
indicated there are 34 projects which are focused 
around immersive technology. These projects 
are spread between 29 universities with one or 
two projects a each. Only the University of Essex 
had three KTPs in this field. Six projects involved 
Russell Group universities  - Queen’s University 
Belfast (two projects); and the Universities of 
Edinburgh, Manchester, Nottingham and York. 
A third of the companies involved with KTPs are 
micro businesses (less than ten employees) and 
a third had between 10 and 49 employees - this in 
parts reflects the aims and objectives of the KTP 
programme and university knowledge transfer 
policy of focusing on SMEs, as well as a reflection 
of the make-up of the industry itself.  
The pattern of KTP engagement reflects a wider 
trend identified through other desk research and 
interviews, that Russell Group universities could 
do more to embrace knowledge transfer and 
knowledge exchange to enable industry to engage 
with and benefit from their research programmes 
around immersive technology.  

[PAGE 18]
34  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 35
We have used international case studies to add to 
our understanding of:
•  How immersive clusters outside the UK 
have developed; is this ‘organic  growth’, a 
response to the needs of a particular supply 
chain, the result of state intervention and 
state aid, or a combination of factors?
• Whether there was evidence of effective 
clustering; and what benefits that brought.
• What elements went to make up the 
immersive content and tech ‘ecosystem’ in 
different places.
• Whether individual clusters were more or 
less focused on a shared ‘smart specialisa -
tion’ in a way that enhanced their combined 
productivity and competitiveness. Was there 
evidence that places had developed tech -
nology, processes or access to a particular 
talent pool that was widely dispersed across 
companies in the cluster in a way that gave 
them a collective advantage in particular 
product segments or market verticals whilst 
raising the barrier to entry to competitors? 
• Which barriers members of these other, 
more mature ecosystems saw in research 
and distribution of immersive content; and if they were taking steps to address them.
• How active a role had been taken by local, 
regional and national government in shaping, 
growing and promoting immersive industries.
• Whether any of these approaches offered 
insight into how Digital Catapult and other 
partners might help both suppliers and end 
users of immersive content across the UK 
address barriers to growth, increase compet -
itiveness and improve productivity.  
7.1 BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA
BUILDING ON THE LEGACY OF GAMES 
AND VISUAL FX
Snapshot
The Vancouver VRARA Chapter is the fastest 
growing chapter in the world; it draws on the talent 
base in Vancouver and the wider British Columbia 
area in special effects, filmmaking and games. 
The Vancouver Chapter has close to 200 VR/AR 
companies and links well with other Chapters and 
Tech clusters in Seattle and California. 
Our case study is based on an interview with Dan 
Burgar, Director of Business Development, Archi -
act and President of VRARA Chapter Vancouver.7. INTERNATIONAL INSIGHTS
The market for immersive content  is international. But the 
complex and fast moving value chains around hardware, 
applications, content and distribution mean that there is not 
a “level playing field” for producers in all parts of the world. 
Different places provide access to market opportunities that 
are specific to their location; and there is also a question 
about whether policy makers have attempted deliberately to 
raise regulatory or tariff barriers to entry to “non-local” firms, 
or have provided fiscal and other incentives to support the 
growth of their immersive  content sector.Strengths
• Entertainment content. British Columbia 
(BC) has a 40-year history of growing its 
media arts sector, and is home to some of 
the largest special-effects companies in 
North America. The Vancouver cluster is is 
a world leader in 3D animation and visual 
effects (VFX).  
• Anchor companies - including Electronic 
Arts, which hosts the world’s largest videog -
ame test operation in BC.
• More than 100 independent gaming studios 
are located in Lower Mainland (central 
Vancouver)
• Strong data resources and culture of data 
analytics - which initial grew from informa -
tion about BC’s natural resources. Oppor -
tunity for VR and AR to help turn this into 
useful information that can be accessed 
easily.  Visualisation can help to understand 
these big data sources.  
• Connection between VR and AR developers 
and people working in different sectors, in -
cluding extractive industries and manufactur -
ing, presents opportunities for wide ranging 
impacts that generate demand for a range 
of immersive content, and that can in turn 
transform many different industries.  
• Development of the Digital Technology 
Supercluster: a $200m CAD investment 
from Canadian government, in partnership 
with with more than 200 companies and 25 
universities, underpinned by engagement of 
technology giants, which aims to leverage 
$500m CAD private sector and VC invest -
ment into the area.  
ENTERTAINMENT CONTENT
The Vancouver immersive ecosystem is con -
tent-driven and enterprise led. Games and VFX 
have been here for decades and those skills are 
directly transferable into immersive content.  
Metro Vancouver’s media-arts sector has been gathering momentum for more than 40 years. 
In 1977, the B.C. government established a film 
development office to promote the province to the 
Hollywood community. Now known colloquially 
as Hollywood North, the region is home to some 
of the largest special-effects stages in North 
America, and is recognised as a world leader in 3D 
animation and visual effects. Interactive entertain -
ment, too, is a big draw for international talent. 
Anchor companies include EA, which created 
its EA Canada wing just outside of Vancouver in 
1991. It houses the world’s largest videogame test 
operation; and more than 100 independent gam -
ing studios call the Lower Mainland home.
DATA ANALYTICS AND VISUALISATION
That creative foundation is a great resource, but 
it’s a more esoteric aspect of Metro Vancouver’s 
history that makes its VR and AR industry versa -
tile. Stacked with companies like Crystal Decisions 
(now a part of SAP) and branches of Microsoft 
and Amazon focused on data analytics, the 
Vancouver area has an aptitude for record-keep -
ing that also offers a goldmine of information 
for up-and-coming businesses. British Columbia 
has always been very strong at collecting data, 
particularly industrial data from its extractive 
industries. BC enjoys the benefits of a plethora of 
information that is tied to natural resources: from 
satellite imaging to radar information to sensors 
that are gathering information from the Internet 
of Things. Additionally, there is a mass of medical 
data -  MRI images, CAT scans, and everything like 
it - amassed over 30 years.
These data sets are so voluminous they are 
almost impossible to navigate, and so they need 
visualisation to be able to understand them. VR 
and AR helps turn this “treasure trove of data in 
the province” into useful information that can be 
accessed easily and manipulated by people with -
out specialist skills. 

[PAGE 19]
36  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 37
ENTERPRISE APPLICATIONS 
With its strong connections between VR and 
AR developers and professionals in different 
sectors, Vancouver has carved a niche in the 
business-to-business space. Advancements in 
firefighting techniques, architectural design, and 
visualising oil pipelines are a few of the many ide -
as currently in development by local companies. 
Niche applications in advanced manufacturing, 
like those demonstrated by outfits like Finger 
Food (see below), have the  potential to transform 
industries, and will drive VR and AR adoption by 
businesses around the globe.
BUSINESS INCUBATION
The Cube is an incubator for the region’s VR and 
AR businesses, offering workshops and training 
from local education hubs such as BCIT, as well 
as speaker sessions on topics like how to raise 
capital. It provides early-stage companies with a 
grounding and access to the partnership-ready 
Cascadia Innovation Corridor: the swathe of land 
that connects Metro Vancouver to tech goliaths 
Amazon and Microsoft in Seattle. 
Barriers
• There are active angel funding networks in 
Vancouver and across Canada. But most 
growth funding is still coming up from 
Silicon Valley. 
• For entertainment content: lack of a mass 
market platform, or device, or combination 
of the two, for VR experiences.
Opportunities 
• Generous funding and grant initiatives for VR 
and AR companies.
• Formal and  large scale support for devel -
opment of the cluster. British Columbia has 
just been guaranteed $200m CAD in Federal 
Government support for developing its “dig -
ital technology supercluster”. The regional bid included more than 200 companies and 
25 universities, research institutions and 
post-secondary institutes.. One of its objec -
tives is to leverage an additional $500m CAD 
from angel investors into a “Supercluster 
Fund”
• The supercluster aims to use technology to 
help create personalised gene-based cancer 
treatments; to improve geological data use 
to improve resource sector projects; and 
to create a “teaching hospital for advanced 
manufacturing”, through use of virtual reality. 
• The ability to access cross-platform op -
portunities reduces the risk in distribution 
of entertainment and education software 
for BC-based companies. The recognised 
expertise of the cluster means that hardware 
companies such as HTC, Oculus, and Sam -
sung look to Metro Vancouver companies, 
such as Archiact, to create games and busi -
ness programs to run on their gear, and to 
develop flagship apps for yet-to-be released 
headsets. Archiact developed a game for 
Samsung’s Gear VR and Google Daydream 
called Hidden Fortune. 
• Collocation of hardware and software devel -
opers benefits  companies within the cluster. 
The Microsoft Hololens, developed in the 
tech giant’s Vancouver office, is the platform 
for Vancouver-based Finger Food Studios’ 
program for vehicle manufacturers to create 
trucks in augmented reality. The software 
lets users add, resize, and change parts of 
the 3D model simply by moving their fingers 
in front of the glasses. Previously, vehicle 
design involved cutting a life-size model out 
of clay: a process which took six months. 
Finger Food’s technology slashes that time 
to three days.
• BC’s large extractive industries have pre -
sented an opportunity both for indigenous 
companies and inward investors. RealWare , 
which creates wearable specialised clothing 
for industry purposes, such as building site helmets with AR visors that allow users to 
view information and instructions while on 
the job, recently relocated its HQ from SIli -
con Valley. Vancouver-based LlamaZOO has 
created software that simplifies the design 
of new mines by enabling a huge amount of 
data in different formats to be pulled togeth -
er in a single visualisation that is accessible 
to people with a range of specialisms, and 
none.
SHANGHAI, PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA
BASED ON AN INTERVIEW WITH 
ALLEN FOO, FOUNDER & CEO, UCCVR  
(“ULTIMATE CREATORS CREATE  
VIRTUAL REALITY”)
 
Snapshot
There are around 1,000 decent immersive compa -
nies in China - mainly clustered around Shanghai, 
Beijing and Shenzen. There are 30% fewer compa -
nies in immersive technology in China since 2015, 
reflecting market consolidation. The virtual reality 
industry started in China around 2013, with with 
hardware vendors gaining finance and traction. By 
2015 activity was focused on software companies 
applying the technology to games and enterprise ap -
plications. Now,it is hardware companies are looking 
to exit after their second or third round of funding.
UCCVR is an incubator and investment fund 
in Shanghai, with operations in Chengdu and 
Singapore.  UCCVR hosts 30 VR meetups a year 
for developers and has 900 staff in Shanghai.  It is 
one of the key investors in immersive technology 
in China, channelling funds from venture capital -
ists, mainly based in Beijing. It provides incubating 
businesses access technical specialists in house 
to support their incubation companies and links to 
Shanghai University of Engineering Science.Strengths
• Established cluster and industrial base 
• Incubator provides access to VC and techni -
cal support 
Barriers
• Difficult to find funding for new creative 
content
• Fragmentation of platforms and devices for 
distribution of content
Opportunities
• Fragmentation of markets for immersive 
content is not a concern to the cluster. 
There are vast opportunities for for the new 
experiences, learning and enjoyment that 
audiences and clients will pay for - it is a 
matter of when not if.  
• It is  expanding in the second tier clusters 
in China: seeing more opportunity in a less 
populated market (in terms of immersive 
companies) in places like Chengdu and 
Hangzhou. This includes establishing an 
incubation centre in Chengdu, backed by the 
local government, which will be ready at the 
end of 2018. 
• Chinese government Innovation Voucher 
scheme for 25% of project costs accessed 
by some companies.  
• Government backing for incubation centre 
in Chengd7. International Insights

[PAGE 20]
38  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 39
BARRIERS TO BUSINESS SUPPORT 
AND CLUSTER GROWTH  
One of the strong themes from regional UK clus -
ters is the challenge of being connected with  
London . Often these clusters feel detached from 
the London supply chain and London-based na -
tional sector support. A number of clusters report 
that local small and medium sized businesses are 
not connected to the Digital Catapult or Innova -
teUK  in a meaningful way.
Opportunities for showcasing are seen as a very 
important driver for growth. The lack of  
showcasing events for UK clusters nationally and 
internationally was consistently mentioned as a 
barrier.  Showcases which exist have a London fo -
cus, leaving some of those outside London feeling 
they have little influence and less opportunity to 
make their work visible.  The lack of a showcase 
of immersive content from across the nation 
hampers the international market development 
potential of businesses in the nations and regions.
Some regions have a poor impression of existing 
support from the Digital Catapult and InnovateUK - either because of geographical remoteness, 
lack of understanding of the impact of devolution 
on opportunities for growth, or a combination 
of these. Respondents reported a preference 
for support based on personal connections with 
individuals based in the region.
The idea that the London HQ is an accessible 
resource for companies in other parts of the 
country is not universally accepted: 
“A London-based centre is not servicing East 
Midlands.”
Faith Blakemore, ex-Nottingham City Council
Nottingham City Council has developed a menu of 
what support it would like from Digital Catapult:
• Support around financing, and for investors.
• Commitment to a platform for communi -
cation of opportunities/initiatives, including 
those of other Catapults and InnovateUK 
that present opportunities to immersive 
suppliers and researchers.
• Coordination and support for networking: 
locally in the city and region; and with the 
wider UK immersive cluster. 8. BARRIERS
This chapter discusses the barriers to the growth of the UK’s 
immersive content landscape in the following areas:
• In business support and cluster growth
• In research, knowledge exchange and skills
• In infrastructure
• In distribution
• In international collaboration and promotion of  
exports and inward investment
• In policy• Sharing of research findings.
• Workshops on design techniques for immer -
sive content.
• Round table on developing smart specialisa -
tion within the cluster.r.
The lack of physical engagement with the Digital 
Catapult  is particularly notable in the discussions 
with the South Wales and Scottish clusters; which 
highlights the importance of having a tailored 
approach to each of the devolved nations.    
BARRIERS IN RESEARCH,  
KNOWLEDGE EXCHANGE AND 
SKILLS
Although many of the clusters had good interac -
tion between higher education and enterprise, a 
lack of opportunities for collaborative R&D is hold -
ing some developments back. In some areas HEIs 
do not partner with local immersive businesses, 
leaving local clusters without a connection to 
cutting edge research. In other areas, there ap -
pears to be a lack of appetite from local firms, as 
it has been reported that at knowledge exchange 
events there are more academics than people 
from business.  Whatever the cause, this results 
in suboptimal levels of knowledge transfer and 
exchange. There is not enough dissemination of 
projects both at fundamental research stage and 
development stage amongst companies that are 
working directly within different supply chains.
• Russell Group universities are perceived to 
be less keen to promote their research and 
services - already engaged with ‘tier 1’ com -
panies in their respective supply chains - but 
this means that there is an unknown amount 
of knowledge that may not be effectively 
transferred between research centres and to 
immersive suppliers and end users.
• Redbricks and post-1992 HEIs have adopted 
an ‘Avis’ strategy - “we try harder” - with 
more evidence of industry engagement and knowledge transfer.
• Still very low levels of take up of formal KTPs 
- only 34 in total - no institution has more 
than three immersive KTPs  
Discussion with researchers in Nottingham 
reflected concerns expressed in Manchester that 
there is not enough QA of what is being produced: 
a lot of businesses are diversifying from games, 
media, film into immersive tech because their 
clients are requiring it. The need to extend their 
skillset at all levels (as there aren’t enough people 
with those skills, particularly in lower grades) goes 
beyond just coding and UX into the understanding 
needed to establish a use case and benefits for 
medical applications of all kinds, e.g.:
• How do you create an environment that a 
human can accept?
• What precedents in research, design, trials 
and testing do suppliers need to be aware of 
before approaching clinical end users?
• What skills are needed? Ethics, sociology, 
psychology?
• What regulatory and approvals regimes 
may apply?
Universities are not yet up to speed with the skills 
requirements of immersive suppliers and large 
companies who are developing their own immer -
sive teams. This is exacerbating gaps and short -
falls in digital talent experienced across the UK.
In the games industry, testing was always viewed 
as an alternative way in for people with lower 
levels of formal qualifications. QA could therefore 
become a way to increase diversity in the immer -
sive workforce - but at present, neither awareness 
of the opportunity nor the apprenticeship frame -
works exist to promote this.

[PAGE 21]
40  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 41
BARRIERS IN INFRASTRUCTURE
REGIONAL AND NATIONAL SUPPORT
Many respondents felt they could have better 
recognition and support  from national and local 
governments and LEPs. One cluster felt that 
immersive technology was not a priority for their 
LEP, leaving it without a route into local funding.  
Cluster development is uneven, and some areas 
would benefit from the connectivity of other areas 
to venture capital, high quality research base and 
connections with the big technology players. 
DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND 5G
Digital connectivity seems not to be an issue for the 
supplier businesses and research centres we have 
spoken to - it’s now a ‘basic hygiene factor’ that any 
content production business will address in their 
choice of premises. However, this is not necessarily 
the case for all end user businesses. Whilst recent 
policy shifts to promote “full fibre” connectivity (as 
opposed to variants of copper-based technologies 
such as VDSL or Virgin Media’s proprietary DOCSIS 
3.0 standard) will see more businesses access sta -
ble, symmetric connections, at present only 3.5% of 
UK premises can access this level of service.19 This 
may prove a barrier to take up of applications such 
as virtual conferencing for businesses - or lead to 
disillusionment with the service if companies try 
to use similar applications without understanding 
the level of connectivity required. It may also affect 
the growth of immersive MMOs already under 
development.
The problem may arise with technical distribution 
and architectures, as much as, if not more than, 
physical infrastructure. There is a view that  the 
proposition for 5G relies heavily on anticipated 
demand for AR/VR, but the architectures are not 
fit for purpose and latency is likely to be a big prob -
lem. High Performance Computing offers some 
solutions but none that are obvious and scalable 
at this point. BARRIERS TO THE UPTAKE OF  
IMMERSIVE TECHNOLOGY
There are still technological barriers to end user 
adoption of immersive technology - the heavy 
wearable, tethered technology can be problem, 
particularly for some consumer focused applica -
tions.  There remains a concern that VR can lead 
to nauseousness, and there are concerns about 
hygiene implications of sharing headsets or other 
immersive technology. There are unknowns: how 
might audiences be affected biologically, socially, 
emotionally or psychologically by being immersed 
in content?
For as long as the business model is unclear, and 
as has been observed before at the early stage 
of other digital content advances (such as mobile 
applications), investors may give preferential treat -
ment to tech rather than content propositions. For 
example, Samsung, which has a VC arm based 
Berlin, is looking to invest in early-stage immersive 
software companies - but not in creative content. 
With many parallels to the development of the film 
industry, where Hollywood’s superior market pow -
er is built primarily on ownership of international 
distribution but also on its investment in new IP 
to populate those distribution channels, some 
investors (both in Europe and China) predict that 
the reluctance of Asian players such as Samsung 
and HTC to invest directly in content will hand the 
advantage in standardisation of homologation of 
technical standards for distribution and hardware 
to the US-based giants. There seems to be a 
paradox here that only once that monopsonistic 
position has been reached, offering consumers 
access to most of the available content through 
a single platform, which will then be the subject 
of competition from content creators looking for 
their content to be purchased for distribution on it, 
will levels of uptake rise.BARRIERS IN DISTRIBUTION
In all sectors, there can be a mismatch between 
people’s expectations of an immersive experience 
and what is being developed. In some cases, this 
is expressed as unrealistically high expectations 
of quality, making development costs and risks 
prohibitive for SMEs; and in other cases attributed 
to consumers not being aware of the rapid pace of 
development and having low expectations.  
At the moment, the return on investment in pro -
ducing immersive creative content (particularly VR 
games) is uncertain - similar to the early days of 
mobile applications. Fragmentation of the market 
results in confusion around hardware compati -
bility and distribution platforms , leading some 
developers to hold off projects until the position 
becomes more certain.
“Suppliers are waiting for the equivalent of the app 
store” 
Ben Trewhella, Opposable VR
BARRIERS TO INTERNATIONAL  
COLLABORATION AND DISTRIBUTION
Magnified by fragmentation - eg, there is no single 
business model for international co-production 
of immersive content in the way that would apply 
in film and television; regulatory differences and 
access to international test audiences in sectors 
such as medicine and education may mean that 
slutions developed in UK are not directly scalable.
The extent to which the monopsony in creative 
content markets anticipated by some investors 
will arise may accentuate  barriers to distibution of 
UK immersive content - given that the assumption 
is that the ‘winner’ of the standards ‘war’ seems 
unlikely to be a British company - is hard to judge: 
the UK film production sector, for example, has 
proven remarkably resilient and adaptable whilst working in a market where distribution opoortu -
nities are overwhelmingly controlled by a small 
number of US-owned companies. 
But otherwise, barriers for creators of immersive 
content for all market verticals are similar to those 
faced in any other sector:
• Most suppliers are micro enterprises
• Language
• Culture
• Different end user kit
• Different data standards and IP protection
• Cost of establishing a foothold in other 
markets
BARRIERS TO EXPORT GROWTH
Outside the US, where historic distribution 
relationships for entertainment content and a 
shared language go some way to compensate for 
the superior market power of US producers and 
distributors, the scale of the Chinese domestic 
market makes it of interest to many immersive 
content suppliers. However, China’s ability to make 
better technology, particularly hardware, more 
quickly and cheaply is a barrier to attracting in -
vestment for UK companies, as are the UK’s cost 
base and capabilities . Chinese hardware and soft -
ware firms are more likely to commission and pilot 
new work from local providers; without control of 
channels of distribution, or any price advantage, 
UK companies are going to have to rely on tradi -
tional strengths of strong IPs (particularly those 
associated with recognisable, global brands) to 
enter that market. Despite those high barriers, 
there remain a number of significant companies 
keen to explore the market opportunities in China, 
particularly for the application of immersive 
around a particular market vertical. However, key 
barriers to developing these opportunities are  lack 
of information about legislative, regulatory and 
standards requirements for the Chinese market.  8. Barriers

[PAGE 22]
42  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 43
BARRIERS IN POLICY AND  
SUPPORT
There is also a question about whether the most 
appropriate support measures should reflect 
those designed for ‘tech’ or ‘creative’ sectors? Al -
though many suppliers come from other creative 
industries disciplines, many of the most acces -
sible market opportunities are in sectors other 
than entertainment content and creative services. 
Therefore support needed to grow immersive 
content markets may not be a good ‘fit’ for current 
policy to support collaborative R&D for those end 
user industries.
We have pointed out similarities between estab -
lished models for distribution of film content and 
the emerging picture for immersive. Tax breaks 
for investment in UK film production have helped 
underpin and drive growth in the sector; but it is 
not clear how these may be extended to offer the 
nascent immersive entertainment content sector 
both protection and encouragement at this point, 
where distribution models and industry-standard 
agreements have yet to be agreed. At this stage, 
our feedback is that small grants for creating 
content, rather than open calls for projects, would 
better support creative content suppliers and 
content publishers in testing market opportunities 
and exploring distribution channels.
This confusion is reflected in some existing eco -
nomic development strategies. Immersive content 
and technology is not clearly identified in many 
Science and Innovation Audits, Local Economic 
Partnership or Combined Authority strategies - 
and where it is, may be bundled with AI, IoT and 
Smart Cities as an ‘enabling technology’ in a way 
that is not necessarily conducive to growth of 
the immersive content sector. The low number of 
immersive-specific KTPs reflects a concern about 
over-reliance on tech transfer as a way to address 
barriers in research - at the expense of knowl -
edge exchange, which may offer a more agile 
means of raising levels of technical competence across a fast-moving and fluid sector. From the 
creative arts side, there is clearer understanding 
of knowledge exchange -based approaches than 
those based on more formal ‘Tech transfer’ ; and 
more evidence that partnerships between creative 
SMEs, universities and end users can both invest 
in the discovery of new knowledge and content 
at the same time as testing it in a real world 
application.
GEOGRAPHICAL BARRIERS
Although many places we studied have only 
‘proto-clusters’ with small numbers of specialist 
agencies, there is consensus across the nations 
and regions Digital Catapult, and InnovateUK more 
widely, need to work more closely with local part -
ners to embrace place-specific strategies and ap -
proaches to reflect the ambition of cities and city 
regions across the UK. This work needs to be sus -
tained, and look more like accounts management 
than an events strategy: it should build networks 
and capacity of ‘organic’ immersive clusters. If 
successful, it would deliver against the priority of 
‘rebalancing’ the UK economy, both spatially and 
sectorally, expressed in Industrial Strategy.
 KEY THEMES
• Content showcases and lab facilities for 
regions and nations.
• Review of the way in which Digital Catapult 
and ImmerseUK combine to deliver network 
support. 
• The role of city, regional and national admin -
istrations in nurturing immersive clusters.
• Platform interventions - Audiences of the 
Future and beyond.
• HEI expertise in research design and proof of 
concept, as much as high performance com -
puting and computer science capability, can 
reduce cost and risk of development.
• Can we use fiscal and regulatory measures 
to help underpin and accelerate groth of the 
UK immersive content sector as part of a 
mixed economy model?
9.1 CONTENT SHOWCASES AND 
LABS FOR REGIONS AND NATIONS 
Although it is not clear that the presence of an 
accessible local research centre or immersive lab 
is directly correlated with growth of clusters, most 
places that don’t have some kind of hub facility 
seem to want one - although their needs differ.
 These could take several forms:
• Local labs, such as Bristol’s VR Lab, offering 
access to development hardware and soft -
ware whose rapid development (and obsoles -
cence) otherwise represents a significant risk 
for SMEs; and providing preferential access to 
industry data sets and university intellectual property to allow for rapid prototyping and 
commercialisation of new products.
• Smaller, content focused projects, such as 
BBC R&D’s proposed Object Media Lab, that 
explore how object-oriented programming 
concepts can be translated into scalable 
production techniques for commercial 
development of immersive entertainment 
applications - opening up the opportunities in 
immersive content to more web-based agen -
cies, rather than relying on adapting methods 
from film and television.
• Regional/national demonstrators - large scale 
technical facilities that are both used to push 
the boundaries of research into standards, 
hardware, and distribution, whilst promoting 
existing immersive product.The HVMC shows 
that providing taste and test access to Virtual 
Reality Headsets, Augmented Reality Smart 
Glasses, full motion rigs and CAVE systems 
has enabled larger corporations and SMEs to 
make purchasing decisions. This offer could 
be extended into centres offering large screen 
technologies and/or untethered experiences 
(eg holographic displays), and large scale real -
ity capture facilities, alongside access to the 
latest consumer hardware.
• Portable VR Cave environments could make 
good additions to Digital Catapult Immersive 
Labs to lend out. They are a good middle 
ground to engage staff who have mixed levels 
of digital literacy. For some products, such as 
training content developed by the HIVE, the 
opportunity to demonstrate it to industry in a 
facility nearer to potential clients, or to have a 
hireable facility for training of existing clients, 
would allow a scaling up of that business.9. OPPORTUNITIES
This chapter discusses the opportunities emerging from the 
key themes identified by this study, and the barriers identified 
in the previous chapter.

[PAGE 23]
44  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 45
For cities such as Manchester and Nottingham, 
with access to diverse academic resources and 
industry partners, the challenge seems to be more 
about how physical centres can promote the city 
region and its businesses to overseas investors 
and customers than giving SMEs access to devel -
opment environments and tools. 
These options require further study to establish 
their feasibility and viability - for example, there are 
challenges to the idea that the public purse should 
subsidise the creation of further large-scale reality 
capture facilities when they are available both 
commercially and through the Dimension Studio 
in South West London.
9.2 NETWORK SUPPORT
Some reported barriers are attributable to the kind 
of communication failures and knowledge asym -
metries around forms of support that already 
exist; an imbalance common amongst dispersed 
and early stage sectors. There was a lack of clarity 
about the purpose of ‘immersive labs’ of different 
kinds, and about how to access them. Im -
merseUK’s capacity, resource and role was poorly 
understood in some quarters, and not recognised 
at all in others. Two stated ‘gaps’: a national net -
work for sharing of opportunities and knowledge 
from projects and research, and matchmaking 
content creators with SMEs in all market verticals 
that have a demand for immersive content - are in 
scope of ImmerseUK’s remit. We would identify 
these rather as a question about the ideal mode of 
its delivery.
OPPORTUNITIES - BUSINESS AND  
SECTOR GROWTH
Overall, the world of immersive technology is still 
relatively small, therefore cross-UK networking, 
collaboration and coordination should be possible.   
It is essential to balance the need for regional clus -tering with the economies of scale of providing 
high quality facilities on a national scale. Providing 
facilities and easy access to them is important 
for regional businesses, but local policy makers 
may also argue the case for additional centres for 
investment promotion purposes. Further work is 
needed to establish how this wider network could 
best be achieved, and what capability is most 
relevant to the needs of each local immersive 
content cluster.  
Collaboration with large firms is starting in some 
places - for example Airbus and PTC in Bristol.  
However more could be done across other areas 
to connect some of the potential larger-scale 
industrial commissioners of immersive content 
with developers.  
There are opportunities to build on existing 
research expertise for the UK to become expert in 
research in some of the key adoption barriers such 
as immersive equipment hygiene; biological, social, 
emotional, ethical and psychological impacts.  
9.3 OPPORTUNITIES - CITY AND  
REGIONAL CLUSTERING
National agencies should not expect to shoulder 
the burden alone. There is an opportunity for 
devolved administrations, Metro Mayors and local 
figureheads from HE and industry to ‘amplify’ the 
immersive sector, highlighting its growth opportu -
nities and encouraging investment.  
Each geographic area has specific opportunities 
relating to its own context. These include:
• Bristol:  Using the 5G testbed for further R&D 
into untethered immersive experiences. 
• Nottingham : Utilising existing Higher Edu -
cation links with China to establish business 
connections around immersive technology 
there through showcasing.
• South Wales : Exploring language and trans -9. Opportunities
lation in immersive content, fuelled by dual 
language requirement for content.  
The place of immersive content and technology, 
and fostering “smart specialisation” that optimis -
es local capabilities and opportunities, could be 
elevated in local strategies and plans.  
While it is important to foster strong connections 
between businesses in close proximity, there is 
an opportunity to link up clusters outside London 
to each other, to national agencies, and to provide 
more collaborative opportunities for developing 
projects, showcases and research.  
ANCHOR INSTITUTIONS
We recognise that it is unrealistic to expect that 
Digital Catapult should have a facility in every 
city in the UK, or even a relationship manager 
in every emerging cluster. But we observe that 
HVMC’s model of a network of regional labs and 
centres encouraged to cooperate and collaborate 
offers an anchor institution for the development 
of a national network for distributed technology, 
innovation and content development support. 
This is a good model for how a network of Digital 
Catapult Immersive Labs and clusters across the 
whole of the UK could work together to benefit 
the UK’s immersive content market. There is an 
opportunity for Digital Catapult and ImmerseUK to 
work with, and through, other anchor institutions, 
whether that is other Catapults’ Labs, HEIs, City 
Councils/Combined Authorities, multimedia arts 
centres or commercial partners, to provide both a 
networking, matchmaking and physical presence 
in diverse communities across the UK.
This network could deliver other specific benefits 
identified by interviewees:
• Empowering organic clusters to address 
their gaps and become better organised 
through funding.Case study - BBC R&D
BBC Wales’ role as an anchor institution in the content produc -
tion sector presents some specific opportunities to the growth 
of the immersive sector in South Wales. At present, BBC is 
piloting immersive projects rather putting out commissions for 
content - but that will change shortly. BBC R&D is developing 
proposals for an Object Media Lab, an experiment in developing 
television content using object oriented programming methods 
familiar from web production. This is likely to favour immersive 
suppliers, whose workflows tend to resemble those of the 
web rather than traditional broadcasting. This forms part of a 
consortium bid with Cardiff University for a £9m, AHRC-funded 
Creative Industries Cluster.
• Expanding the role of ImmerseUK to create 
a national matchmaking, and opportunities 
and knowledge sharing network for a range 
of end users of immersive content.
• Focusing research on audio, haptics, 
olfactory developments and psychological, 
biological, social, emotional, ethical and 
hygiene impacts and benefits.
• Establishing demand and feasibility for ad -
ditional large-scale reality capture facilities 
to service content producers and end users 
outside London.
9.4 PLATFORMS
Whilst it is unsurprising that a sector made up 
predominantly of SMEs should focus on their ability 
to access support and technology more locally and 
more easily, feedback from private investors focuses 
on the need for large scale, strategic interventions.
The rationale is clear: 
• The US ‘Big 5’ (Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, 
Facebook and Microsoft) are each investing 
more than any single government pro -
gramme in the UK could manage.
• It seems likely that this will result in US 
companies determining the standards 

[PAGE 24]
46  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018 47
for hardware and owning the distribution 
mechanisms for immersive tech. This is 
analogous to the way in which the US exerts 
superior market power in the film industry: 
whilst its investment in IP is significant, the 
global distribution networks built up by a 
handful of major studios over more than 100 
years is the reason we see a disproportion -
ate amount of US product on our cinema 
and TV screens.
• The interest of smaller nations is best served 
by establishing their value proposition in this 
marketplace, and by then being prepared to 
invest in a strategy that secures competitive 
advantage in that area for their businesses 
and research institutions.
Examples of platform interventions could include:
• Big data is an underdeveloped and underused 
resource. Our case study of the Digital 
Technology Supercluster around Vancouver 
provides evidence of the enormous value of 
access to large datasets to both the immer -
sive sector and end user industries. Individual 
HEIs (Bristol, Nottingham) are working locally 
in this way to provide access to datasets for 
SMEs - but there is opportunity for a national 
programme to take advantage of huge 
industrial datasets (in the same way in which 
the British Columbia cluster has worked with 
extractive industries) and the large amount of 
undeveloped IP in the university sector.
• Untethered experiences  may well reduce 
the friction of the immersive content expe -
rience and supersede current standards 
debates around consumer hardware. The UK 
doesn’t have a stake in the ‘VHS vs Betamax’ 
tussle over HMDs and AR goggles - but 
could take a lead here, building on prece -
dents established by mixed reality produc -
tions such as the RSC/Imaginarium/Intel 
collaboration on ‘The Tempest’.
• Immersive MMOs  may be the best way to test standards and technical architecture for 
5G networks ‘at scale’. Watershed’s engage -
ment with Bristol’s DCMS-backed 5G testbed 
is an encouraging precedent for engagement 
of immersive content producers in piloting 
and testing new standards; and  Cam -
bridge-based Improbable VR, which benefits 
from a $500m VC investment and commis -
sion from Jagex for just such a product, could 
be part of a platform for further R&D.
The InnovateUK Audiences of the Future com -
petition potentially presents an opportunity to 
pilot and shape some of this thinking, but the 
suggested levels of investment may be too low to 
sustain a major platform intervention of the kind 
outlined above.
9.5 BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT WITH 
THE KNOWLEDGE BASE
This overlaps in some way with the ‘big data’ plat -
form outlined above; but also has a more specific 
focus on the expertise within universities.
Feedback from consultation suggests that, in 
markets as varied as medical training, offshore 
energy and MMOs, access to university expertise 
in research design and proof of concept, as much 
as high performance computing and computer 
science capability, can reduce cost and risk of 
development for SMEs. 
From end-users, we also heard strongly-ex -
pressed concerns about the need for immersive 
content companies to develop better understand -
ing of other industry sectors - including, but not 
limited to, medical use cases and research design, 
to avoid alienating healthcare delivery agencies 
and practitioners. This is an area in which greater 
coordination between universities, of the various 
Catapults and sector specialists within Innova -
teUK could lead to development of a knowledge 
exchange platform (possibly as part of Audienc -9. Opportunities
es of the Future) that could establish scalable 
processes for testing and adoption of immersive 
content within other sectors.
We have observed that the willingness of univer -
sities to actively engage with immersive content 
producers - in particular, with SMEs - is inversely 
correlated to the institution’s research ranking.
Our previous work on RCUK-funded attempts to 
help open out HEI resource to small creative busi -
nesses, such as the AHRC Knowledge Exchange 
Hubs, tells us that there are some powerful dis -
incentives and intended consequences for some 
academics - particularly early-career researchers 
- to engage in work which doesn’t result in publica -
tion or new IP for the institution. Publicly-funded 
research and the ability to apply it to real world sit -
uations is in plentiful supply across the HEI sector: 
but the ways to make that available to SMEs are 
less clear. Steps that may help unlock it are:
• A focused, large-scale survey of HEI collab -
orative R&D and knowledge transfer activity 
around immersive content.
• A review of IP rules to ensure that HEIs are 
(better) incentivised to open out their intellec -
tual property to SMEs, rather than to sit on it.
• Establishing incentives, measures, and 
rewards for institutions and academic staff 
to engage with the development of immer -
sive content within research and knowledge 
exchange framework assessments.
9.6 FISCAL AND REGULATORY 
INTERVENTIONS WITHIN A MIXED 
ECONOMY MODEL
The success of the UK’s creative industries - con -
sistently the fastest-growing sector of the economy 
over a sustained period - highlights the effective -
ness of a ‘mixed economy’ model in helping (par -
ticularly SME) producers take risks in development 
of IP that have a very positive long term return on 
investment for businesses and taxpayers alike.At this early stage of the immersive content 
sector, it seems probable that the UK will not 
‘own’ the main distribution channels, certainly 
for creative content. It is therefore appropriate to 
review whether existing fiscal interventions - such 
as tax breaks for original UK film and games con -
tent  - can legitimately be extended to immersive 
content, to stimulate production and attract for -
eign direct investment to the sector; and whether 
non-market distorting regulation in other market 
verticals, such as construction, energy, manufac -
turing and medical training, could help incubate 
local immersive supply chains?
 
POSTSCRIPT -  
TECHNICAL REPORT
The conclusions drawn in this summary are based on a 
wealth of detailed quantitative and qualitative evidence 
compiled over a four month period between November 
2017 and March 2018. For reasons of commercial confi -
dentiality, it is not possible to treat this as ‘open data’ nor 
to attribute all findings to an individual or corporate source.
Therefore additional detail is provided to Digital Catapult in 
the form of a Technical Report which includes:
• The database of immersive suppliers built up 
through iterations of desk research and AI-based 
web search
• Databases of public R&D grants and private invest -
ment in immersive 
• Additional GIS maps of businesses, research cen -
tres, private investment and public sector grants 
for research and development
• More in-depth analysis and mapping of individual 
cities and clusters
• Further company case studies 
• Detailed analysis of Science and Innovation Audits 
and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships relating to 
immersive content and technology.

[PAGE 25]
48  Title of report goes here   Document type here 2018FOOTNOTES
1.  DCMS (2018). Culture is Digital.
2.     Check reference
3.     Copy of keywords provided in accompanying Technical 
Report
4.  Zwillenberg, P . et al (2014). Building A Digital City. London:  
 Boston Consulting Group. http://mikebloomberg.com/files/ 
 Building-Digital-City-London.PDF 
5. Community Attributes Inc. (2016).  Washington Interactive  
 Network Interactive Media Industry Assessment: Discussion  
 Draft. Seattle, WA.
6. DCMS (2018). £25m for 5G projects on the anniversary of the  
 UK’s Digital Strategy. Accessed online at  https://www.gov.uk/  
 government/news/25m-for-5g-projects-on-the-anniversary-  
 of-the-uks-digital-strategy on 16 March 2018.
7.     See https://hvm.catapult.org.uk/impact/case-studies/
8.  https://ore.catapult.org.uk/press-release/fife-students-reach-
new-heights-with-world-leading-offshore-wind-training-
laboratory/
9.  https://ts.catapult.org.uk/2017/03/09/future-transport-
virtual-reality/ 
10.      http://www.mglworld.com/virtual-reality-and-augmented-
reality-in-education/
11.    www.classvr.com
12.   See https://hvm.catapult.org.uk/impact/case-studies/
13.   https://www.strath.ac.uk/research/
advancedformingresearchcentre/news/
consortiumtobuildnewrealityforconstructionindustry/
14.  DCMS (2018). £25m for 5G projects on the anniversary of the  
 UK’s Digital Strategy. Accessed online at  https://www.gov.uk/  
 government/news/25m-for-5g-projects-on-the-anniversary- 
 of-the-uks-digital-strategy on 16 March 2018.
15.  Lists and a map of all the Science and Innovation Audit 
areas in the Industrial strategy – see https://www.gov.uk/
government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/
file/664563/industrial-strategy-white-paper-web-ready-
version.pdf, pp86-87
16.  https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/science-and-
innovation-audits-first-wave-reports
17.  https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/science-and-
innovation-audits-second-reports-published
18.  http://www.ukspa.org.uk/blog/17/10/science-innovation-
audit-third-phase-update
19.    Thinkbroadband (2018).  March update on state of broadband 
coverage across the UK, nations and regions, 7   March 
2018. Viewed  online at https://www.thinkbroadband.com/
news/7971-march-update-on-state-of-broadband-coverage-
across-the-uk-nations-and-regions on 12 March 2018.Text goes here Ab invendis magnis ant late natia 
dolenti onseditisqui il ipiet faceperiam rendam 
vellaccuptat re volorem nat auta quiderit laudanis 
dis doloreptat ea nonsequ idelia ilit quo volorepero 
omniminus, utaturem qui a exceperum faccus, to 
magnimusam hit, que non excesto officil laceptur 
a plitatus estiatet apernatem alignimustet quam 
hil inihictius molore, temolest laborum volora 
comniet est quat int et ut lam arum et arum arias 
iditati nitiur? 
Please contact us at  
hello@migarage.ai
www.migarage.aiText  goes here
Name
email
Name
email

[PAGE 26]
Digital Catapult 
101 Euston Road
London
NW1 2RA
0300 1233 101
www.digicatapult.org.uk
www.bop.co.uk